Bradshaw Mintener, a Washington attorney and former Government official who helped in launching both Hubert H. Humphrey and Dwight D. Eisenhower into national politics, died of cancer yesterday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 86 years old and had lived in the capital
Eugene Michael Gervasi, an author and former public relations director, died Friday at University Hospital in Richmond, after a long illness. He was 51 years old and lived in Richmond. Eugene Michael Gervasi, an author and former public relations director, died Friday at Unive
Joseph A. Adorno, a retired Superior Court judge and former state treasurer, was killed Friday in a traffic accident on Route 66 here. He was 76 years old and lived in Middletown. Joseph A. Adorno, a retired Superior Court judge and former state treasurer, was killed Friday in
Joseph K. Miller, a lawyer and accountant active in Jewish concerns, died in the crash of Pan American World Airways Flight 103 Dec. 20 in Lockerbie, Scotland. He was 56 years old and lived in Woodmere, L.I. Joseph K. Miller, a lawyer and accountant active in Jewish concerns, 
Thomas L. Lias, an official in three national administrations, died Thursday at his home here of complications that developed from a stroke he suffered three years ago. He was 54 years old. Thomas L. Lias, an official in three national administrations, died Thursday at his hom
Yuli M. Daniel, a Soviet dissident and satirist whose conviction in 1966 for publishing anti-Government writings abroad drew international attention, died at his home in Moscow on Friday after a stroke. He was 63 years old. Yuli M. Daniel, a Soviet dissident and satirist whose
Clement A. Smith, professor emeritus of pediatrics at Harvard Medical School and a past president of the American Pediatric Society, died Saturday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 87 years old. Dr. Smith conducted studies on the prevention of deaths of babies. He was a recipient
Daniel Curley, a novelist and short story writer, died Friday night of injuries suffered when he was struck by a car while vacationing in Tallahassee, Fla. He was 70 years old and lived in Urbana, Ill. Daniel Curley, a novelist and short story writer, died Friday night of inju
Delmar Karlen, a professor emeritus of the New York University School of Law and a former director of its Institute of Judicial Administration, died of a heart attack Friday at his home in Williamsburg, Va. He was 76 years old. Delmar Karlen, a professor emeritus of the New Yo
Harold W. Zancanata, a scientist who developed some of the first rockets for testing the atmosphere, died of a heart attack Wednesday at Florida Medical Center. He was 70 years old. Harold W. Zancanata, a scientist who developed some of the first rockets for testing the atmosp
Nicholas Calas, an art critic and poet who directed attention in his writings to young artists and new art movements, died of heart failure Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 81 years old. Nicholas Calas, an art critic and poet who directed attention in his writings to 
James Chambers, a teacher and scholar of the French horn who was the principal hornist of the New York Philharmonic for 23 years, died of a heart attack Sunday at his home in Cranberry, N.J. He was 68 years old. James Chambers, a teacher and scholar of the French horn who was 
Loel Guinness, an heir of the banking branch of the Guinness family who was a Member of Parliament for 14 years and a socialite on two continents, died Saturday of heart disease at Methodist Hospital in Houston. He was 82 years old. Loel Guinness, an heir of the banking branch
William Como, the editor in chief of Dance Magazine, died on Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 63 years old and lived in Manhattan. William Como, the editor in chief of Dance Magazine, died on Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 63 years old and lived in Manhattan.      
William Haber, an economist who helped Jewish refugees after World War II as an adviser to the United States armed forces and for 25 years after that as president of the American Organization for Rehabilitation Through Training Federation, died Friday in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 89 yea
Adrian S. Lamb, an artist whose portraits hang in the White House, the Smithsonian Institution, Harvard Law School, the Pentagon and the United States Naval Academy, died of a heart attack in Norwalk (Conn.) Hospital on Saturday. He was 87 years old and had homes in New Canaan, Conn.,
Archie R. Boe, a former president of Sears, Roebuck & Company and the Allstate Insurance Company, died of cancer Monday at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. He was 67 years old and lived in Chicago. Archie R. Boe, a former president of Sears, Roebuck & Company and the
Dr. Arthur Ralph Gold, a professor of English at Wellesley College in Massachusetts, died of cancer Saturday at Cambridge Hospital. He was 53 years old and lived in Cambridge, Mass. Dr. Arthur Ralph Gold, a professor of English at Wellesley College in Massachusetts, died of ca
Sir Christopher Andrewes, a virologist who helped discover the influenza virus, died Saturday. He was 92 years old. Sir Christopher Andrewes, a virologist who helped discover the influenza virus, died Saturday. He was 92 years old. Sir Christopher began his career as a
Dr. Irwin Lubowe, a dermatologist specializing in disorders of the hair and scalp, died Monday at Doctors Hospital in Manhattan after a long illness. He was 83 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Irwin Lubowe, a dermatologist specializing in disorders of the hair and scalp, 
Eddie Heywood, the pianist whose highly stylized arrangement of Cole Porter's ''Begin the Beguine'' made his sextet one of the most popular jazz groups of the 1940's, died Monday at his home in North Miami, Fla. He was 73 years old. Eddie Heywood, the pianist whose highly styl
Francis J. Van Bortel, a former executive vice president of McCann-Erickson Worldwide, the advertising agency, died of a heart attack Sunday at his home in Rye, N.Y. He was 67 years old. Francis J. Van Bortel, a former executive vice president of McCann-Erickson Worldwide, the
Oliver L. Austin Jr., an ornithologist who wrote a definitive study, ''Birds of the World,'' in 1961 and who was curator emeritus of ornithology at the Florida Museum of Natural History, died Saturday at his retirement home in Gainesville, Fla. He was 85 years old and had lived for ma
Seth M. Milliken, a lawyer who spent his career as a pro bono adviser to nonprofit groups, primarily working on housing for the poor, died of cancer yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 78 years old.  Mr. Milliken was on the board of the New York City Mission Society, where he f
Art Rush, a talent agent who represented such performers as Vladimir Horowitz, Orson Welles, Roy Rogers and Dale Evans, died of heart failure Sunday. He was 81 years old. Art Rush, a talent agent who represented such performers as Vladimir Horowitz, Orson Welles, Roy Rogers an
Charles M. Shapp, a retired New York City school superintendent, died of a heart attack Tuesday in Marbella, Spain, where he lived. He was 82 years old. Charles M. Shapp, a retired New York City school superintendent, died of a heart attack Tuesday in Marbella, Spain, where he
John J. Faal, a professor of economics and a former academic vice president at Suffolk County Community College, died of complications from acute leukemia yesterday at St. John's Hospital in Smithtown, L.I. He was 64 years old and lived in Commack, L.I. John J. Faal, a profess
Lyman C. Thunfors, a retired business executive, died of cancer Monday at his home in Bridgeport, Conn. He was 85 years old. Lyman C. Thunfors, a retired business executive, died of cancer Monday at his home in Bridgeport, Conn. He was 85 years old. For 18 years Mr. Th
Nick Virgilio, a poet who specialized in haiku, died Tuesday at George Washington University Medical Center after a heart attack while taping an interview for the CBS television program ''Nightwatch.'' He was 60 years old and lived in Camden, N.J. Nick Virgilio, a poet who spe
Philip D. Tobin, a labor lawyer who was twice elected mayor of the village of Tuckahoe in Westchester County, died of pneumonia Tuesday night at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan after a long battle with cancer. He was 46 years old and lived in Tuckahoe. Philip D. Tobin, a lab
Richard Siegel, a retired English teacher, died of a heart attack yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 70 years old. Richard Siegel, a retired English teacher, died of a heart attack yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 70 years old. He was born in Boston, 
T. Herbert Shriver 2d, a retired investment banker, died Wednesday at his home in Towson, Md., after a long illness. He was 77 years old. T. Herbert Shriver 2d, a retired investment banker, died Wednesday at his home in Towson, Md., after a long illness. He was 77 years old.  
Charles J. Buesing, a retired sales executive and longtime trustee of the American Cancer Society, died of emphysema Saturday at Indian River Memorial Hospital in Indian River Shores, Fla., where he lived. He was 79. Charles J. Buesing, a retired sales executive and longtime t
Dexter Masters, a writer and an editor, died of bronchial pneumonia at St. John's Hospice in Springfield, Ill., yesterday. He was 80 years old and lived in Totnes, England. Dexter Masters, a writer and an editor, died of bronchial pneumonia at St. John's Hospice in Springfield
Irvin Shapiro, a film importer and distributor who introduced many notable foreign movies to the United States, died of complications from Parkinson's disease on Sunday at his home in New York. He was 82 years old. Irvin Shapiro, a film importer and distributor who introduced 
John E. Lawe, president of the Transport Workers Union of America since 1985 and before that president of Local 100, which represents New York City's subway and bus employees, died of complications from cancer of the esophagus yesterday at his home in the Riverdale section of the Bron
John Wood Brooks, a retired chief executive and chairman of the Celanese Corporation of America, died of heart failure Wednesday at his home in Bedford Hills, N.Y. He was 71 years old. John Wood Brooks, a retired chief executive and chairman of the Celanese Corporation of Amer
The Rev. Dr. Charles T. Fritsch, a biblical scholar and former professor of Old Testament literature at Princeton Theological Seminary, died Monday at his home in Jamesburg, N.J., after a long illness. He was 76 years old. The Rev. Dr. Charles T. Fritsch, a biblical scholar an
Dr. Robert S. Coles, an internationally known ophthalmologist and educator, died Wednesday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan after a long illness. He was 68 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Robert S. Coles, an internationally known ophthalmologist and educator, d
Samuel T. Carter 3d, a radio and television writer who retired to write on American history, died of cancer Dec. 28 at the Ponperaug Woods Health Center in Heritage Village, Southbury, Conn. He was 84 years old and lived in Heritage Village. Samuel T. Carter 3d, a radio and te
Vito Titone, a retired lawyer, died of heart failure Wednesday at his winter home in Hallandale, Fla. He was 91 years old and lived in Roslyn Heights, L.I., for the last year. Vito Titone, a retired lawyer, died of heart failure Wednesday at his winter home in Hallandale, Fla.
Emperor Hirohito reigned over not one Japan, but three: a Japan consumed with militarism almost from the time he took over the Chrysanthemum Throne, a Japan that lay in ruins at the end of World War II and seemed destined for years of occupation and dependency, and finally a Japan tha
Alfred S. Julien, a New York trial lawyer who was founder and senior partner in the law firm of Julien & Schlesinger, died of heart failure yesterday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 78 years old and also had homes in Manhattan and in Westhampton Beach, L.I. Alfred S. Jul
Bruce F. Failing Sr., an advertising executive, died of a heart attack Thursday at the Albany Medical Center. He was 70 years old and lived in Westhampton Beach, L.I. Bruce F. Failing Sr., an advertising executive, died of a heart attack Thursday at the Albany Medical Center. 
Donald P. Wright, a vice president and general counsel at the Harris Corporation, the electronics and communciations company, died of a heart attack Thursday at Holmes Regional Hospital in Melbourne, Fla. He was 48 years old and lived in Indialantic, Fla. Donald P. Wright, a v
George M. L. La Branche, founder of La Branche & Company, a Manhattan stock trading concern, died of pneumonia Thursday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 89 years old and lived in Manhattan. George M. L. La Branche, founder of La Branche & Company, a Manhattan stock 
Emperor Hirohito, the last of the World War II leaders and Japan's longest-reigning monarch, died today at the Imperial Palace. He was 87 years old. Emperor Hirohito, the last of the World War II leaders and Japan's longest-reigning monarch, died today at the Imperial Palace. 
Dr. John B. Newman, a retired professor of speech at Queens College and an expert in semantics, died of heart failure Monday at his home in Whitestone, Queens. He was 71 years old. Dr. John B. Newman, a retired professor of speech at Queens College and an expert in semantics, 
Dr. Michael J. Napolitano, chairman of the radiology department of the Catholic Medical Center of Brooklyn and Queens, died Thursday at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville, N.Y., after a short illness. He was 59 years old and lived in Scarsdale, N.Y. Dr. Michael J. Napolitano, cha
Dr. Thomas Holmes, a psychiatrist who helped create a stress scale of such events as marriage and work troubles, died Dec. 24 of a stroke. He was 70 years old. Dr. Thomas Holmes, a psychiatrist who helped create a stress scale of such events as marriage and work troubles, died
Luke A. Baione, the former chairman of Crossland Savings Bank, the nation's 11th-largest savings institution, died of cancer Friday at his home in Staten Island. He was 67 years old. Luke A. Baione, the former chairman of Crossland Savings Bank, the nation's 11th-largest savin
Richard M. Goldwater, a Manhattan lawyer and former New York State Assemblyman, died of complications of pneumonia Friday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 70 years old and lived in Manhattan. Richard M. Goldwater, a Manhattan lawyer and former New York State 
Nathan G. Finkelstein, the chairman of the board of Glemby International, which operates more than 1,600 beauty salons around the world, died of lung cancer yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 73 years old and lived in Manhattan. Nathan G. 
Bill Terry, the Hall of Famer who was the last player to bat .400 in the National League, died yesterday in Jacksonville, Fla. He was 90 years old, and had been in failing health for several months. Bill Terry, the Hall of Famer who was the last player to bat .400 in the Natio
Cranston Williams, general manager of the American Newspaper Publishers Association for 21 years before his retirement in 1960, died of congestive heart failure Sunday at his home in Lynchburg, Va. He was 93 years old. Cranston Williams, general manager of the American Newspap
Dr. Milton J. Brothers, an internist who specialized in the treatment of diabetes, died of bladder cancer yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 62 years old and lived in Fort Lee, N.J. Dr. Milton J. Brothers, an internist who specialized in the treatment 
Harold H. Goldberg Jr., a realtor who headed the American Jewish Committee in New Jersey, died yesterday at his home in Short Hills, N.J., after a long illness. He was 62 years old. Harold H. Goldberg Jr., a realtor who headed the American Jewish Committee in New Jersey, died 
Rabbi Herbert A. Seltzer, a retired administrator of a geriatrics center, died Friday at Good Samaritan Hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 82 years old and lived in Palm Beach. Rabbi Herbert A. Seltzer, a retired administrator of a geriatrics center, died Friday at Good 
John William Bainton, an engineering executive, died of melanoma Thursday at Jefferson University Hospital in Philadelphia. He was 63 years old and had homes in Lyford Cay, the Bahamas, and in Amagansett, L.I. John William Bainton, an engineering executive, died of melanoma Th
Kenneth McMillan, the prolific charactor actor with a burly policeman's demeanor who won critical praise for his often lovable performances, died of liver disease Sunday at St. John's Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 56 years old and lived in Studio City, Calif. Kenneth
Leo H. Barry, a lawyer, died Sunday at New York University Medical Center as the result of a stroke early last month. He was 71 years old and lived in Astoria, Queens. Leo H. Barry, a lawyer, died Sunday at New York University Medical Center as the result of a stroke early las
Richard Barr, the president of the League of American Theaters and Producers, died of liver failure yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital. Mr. Barr, who as a producer brought to the stage the works of Edward Albee, Samuel Beckett and many other playwrights, was 71 years old and lived in M
Robert Watson Pomeroy, a former New York State legislator, died of heart failure on Jan. 4 at his home in Millbrook, N.Y. He was 86 years old. Robert Watson Pomeroy, a former New York State legislator, died of heart failure on Jan. 4 at his home in Millbrook, N.Y. He was 86 ye
William E. Powers, the victim of an accident that left him blind, who become a Justice of the Rhode Island Supreme Court and the state's Attorney General, died Saturday at the Wayland Health Center in Providence. He was 81 years old. William E. Powers, the victim of an acciden
Cyril A. Zebot, a retired professor of economics at Georgetown University and a Slovenian nationalist who vigorously opposed the postwar Communist regime in Yugoslavia, died of lung cancer Monday at his home in Washington. He was 74 years old. Professor Zebot, a graduate of the Univer
Donald Voorhees, for 28 years the conductor and musical director of the ''Bell Telephone Hour,'' one of the most popular musical programs in broadcasting history, died of pneumonia yesterday at Tomlin Memorial Hospital in Cape May Court House, N.J. He was 85 years old and lived in Sto
Herbert Morrison, who 52 years ago broadcast an emotional description of the crash of the Hindenburg, died early today at a nursing home here. He was 83 years old. Herbert Morrison, who 52 years ago broadcast an emotional description of the crash of the Hindenburg, died early 
John Francis Hennessy, a consulting engineer who supervised the design of major buildings in New York City and Washington, died of a heart attack Monday. He was 60 years old and lived in Manhattan. John Francis Hennessy, a consulting engineer who supervised the design of major
Marshall Harvey Stone, a prodigious and influential American mathematician, died Monday in Madras, India, apparently of a stroke. Dr. Stone, who was 85 years old, had gone to India to attend a music festival. Marshall Harvey Stone, a prodigious and influential American mathema
Stephen Csoka, a Hungarian-born realist painter who taught art in New York for four decades, died Thursday at his home in Kings Park, L.I. He was 92 years old. Stephen Csoka, a Hungarian-born realist painter who taught art in New York for four decades, died Thursday at his hom
The Most Rev. William J. McDonald, a nationally known cleric who served as Auxiliary Bishop of the San Francisco Archdiocese for 12 years before his retirement, died of a heart attack Saturday. He was 83 years old, Bishop McDonald, a native of Ireland, was president of the Internation
Brig. Gen. Calvin DeWitt Jr., a career Army officer who commanded the New York Port of Embarcation after World War II, died Tuesday at his home in Alexandria, Va. He was 94 years old. Brig. Gen. Calvin DeWitt Jr., a career Army officer who commanded the New York Port of Embarc
John Allston Sargent, a retired executive and former chief financial officer of the General Dynamics Corporation, died of a stroke Monday in Greenwich, Conn. He was 79 years old and lived in Greenwich. John Allston Sargent, a retired executive and former chief financial office
Former president Jose Luis Bustamante y Rivero, who was ousted in a 1948 military coup and later became president of the International Court of Justice, died Wednesday, a hospital spokesman said. He was 94. Former president Jose Luis Bustamante y Rivero, who was ousted in a 19
Karl Geiringer, a leading figure in musicology since the 1930's, died Tuesday at Cottage Hospital in Santa Barbara, Calif., from complications arising from a fall. He was 89 years old and lived in Santa Barbara. Karl Geiringer, a leading figure in musicology since the 1930's, 
Gen. Maj. Raden Haji Harsoyo, former commander of the Indonesian contingent of United Nations peacekeeping forces in the Vietnam War, died of heart disease Tuesday. He was 63 years old. Gen. Maj. Raden Haji Harsoyo, former commander of the Indonesian contingent of United Natio
Gen. John Knight Waters of the Army, retired, a highly decorated veteran of World War II, died of heart failure Monday at the Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington. He was 82 years old and lived in Potomac, Md. Gen. John Knight Waters of the Army, retired, a highly dec
Michael V. Forrestal, an international lawyer and former Government official who frequently served as an intermediary seeking to improve relations between the United States and the Soviet Union, died of a ruptured aneurysm Wednesday. He was 61 years old and lived in Manhattan.        
Nikos Psacharopoulos, artistic executive director and a co-founder of the Williamstown Theater Festival more than 30 years ago, died yesterday in the Virgin Islands. Mr. Psacharopoulos, who lived in New York and was 60 years old, had colon cancer and was vacationing on St. John Island
Thomas M. Brennan, an official of the National Association of Manufacturers for 28 years before his retirement in 1965, died of cancer on Tuesday at his winter home in Lake Wales, Fla. He was 81 years old and also had a home in Westhampton Beach, L.I. Thomas M. Brennan, an off
Valentin P. Glushko, who in the 1930's pioneered the development of Soviet liquid-fueled rockets, then played a prominent but secret role in Russia's postwar space program, has died at the age of 80, the Soviet press agency Tass announced yesterday. Valentin P. Glushko, who in
William Chaison, a dancer and choreographer and associate professor of physical education at Kean College in Union, N.J., died last Friday at Doctor's Hospital in New York City. He was 44 years old. William Chaison, a dancer and choreographer and associate professor of physica
Andrew McBurney Jackson Jr., a retired vice admiral of the Navy who also served as vice chairman of the United States delegation to the United Nations, died of congestive heart failure Wednesday at a nursing home in Edgewater, Md. He was 81 years old and lived in Annapolis. An
Gordon Wright, a noted horseman and riding instructor who helped establish the United States Equestrian Team after World War II, died Jan. 5 at a nursing home in Tryon, N.C. He was 85 years old and had lived at Wright Way Farm outside nearby Landrum, S.C. Gordon Wright, a note
James E. Hurtubise, a race-car driver who once held the average qualifying speed record for the Indianapolis 500, died Jan. 6 after suffering a heart attack near his home in Port Arthur, Tex. He was 56 years old. James E. Hurtubise, a race-car driver who once held the average 
John Eugene Unterecker, a poet, biographer and educator, died after heart surgery Monday at Straub Hospital in Honolulu. He was 66 years old and lived in Hawaii. John Eugene Unterecker, a poet, biographer and educator, died after heart surgery Monday at Straub Hospital in Hono
Michael M. Katzoff, a retired principal at the High School of Fashion Industries, died of heart failure Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 79 years old. Michael M. Katzoff, a retired principal at the High School of Fashion Industries, died of heart failure Thursday at h
Peter Nichols, for 30 years the Rome correspondent of The Times of London, died Wednesday of a brain hemorrhage in Bracciano, Italy, where he lived. He was 60 years old. Peter Nichols, for 30 years the Rome correspondent of The Times of London, died Wednesday of a brain hemorr
Royal Little, the shrewd Rhode Island entrepreneur who is widely regarded as the inventor of the modern conglomerate, the highly diversified breed of corporation that became the rage on Wall Street in the late 1960's, died Thursday night at his home in Nassau in the Bahamas. He was 92
William Chaison, a dancer and choreographer and associate professor of physical education at Kean College in Union, N.J., died last Friday at Doctor's Hospital in New York City. He was 44 years old. William Chaison, a dancer and choreographer and associate professor of physica
William Michelson, a former president of the United Storeworkers Union, died of a heart attack Thursday at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 74 years old and lived in Manhattan. William Michelson, a former president of the United Storeworkers Union
Dr. John L. Norris, a former chairman of Alcoholics Anonymous, died of complications from pneumonia Friday in New London Hospital in New Hampshire. He was 85 years old and lived in New London. Dr. John L. Norris, a former chairman of Alcoholics Anonymous, died of complications
James A. Davidson, the founder and board chairman of the Hampton Jitney, a bus service between eastern Long Island and Manhattan, died of complications from AIDS yesterday at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 48 years old and had homes in Water Mill, L.I., and Cocoanut Grove, F
Robert Lekachman, a teacher of economics whose maverick views often set him apart from mainstream economists, died of cancer of the liver Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 68 years old. Robert Lekachman, a teacher of economics whose maverick views often set him apart f
Alexander Hahn, who headed a mission after World War II that sought to locate and return Hungarian property taken by the Nazis, died of arterial sclerosis on Dec. 29 at the Forest Hills Nursing Home in Queens. He was 92 years old. Alexander Hahn, who headed a mission after Wor
Brother James H. Vaughan of the Christian Brothers order, a former dean of Iona College, died of a heart attack on Friday at Pascack Valley Hospital in Westwood, N.J. He was 81 years old and lived in Oradell, N.J. Brother James H. Vaughan of the Christian Brothers order, a for
George J. Aspland, a Suffolk County prosecutor who became a State Supreme Court justice, died after a heart attack on Sunday at his retirement home in Delray Beach, Fla. He was 73 years old and also had a home in Babylon, L.I. George J. Aspland, a Suffolk County prosecutor who
Imre Cholnoky, founder and president of Sinjon Inc., a real-estate development corporation, died of cancer yesterday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 68 years old and also had homes in Stratton Mountain, Vt., and Scottsdale, Ariz. Imre Cholnoky, founder and president of 
Shigeharu Matsumoto, a founder of the International House of Japan, died of a stroke last Tuesday in Tokyo, where he lived. He was 89 years old. Shigeharu Matsumoto, a founder of the International House of Japan, died of a stroke last Tuesday in Tokyo, where he lived. He was 8
Sterling A. Brown, a poet and former professor of literature who helped to establish Afro-American literary criticism and who taught many of the nation's black scholars and writers, died of leukemia on Jan. 13 at the Heritage Health Care Center in Takoma Park, Md. He was 87 years old 
Trey Wilson, a stage and film actor, died yesterday at New York Hospital after suffering a cerebral hemorrhage. He was 40 years old and lived in New York. Trey Wilson, a stage and film actor, died yesterday at New York Hospital after suffering a cerebral hemorrhage. He was 40 
Carl M. Spero, retired president of the Spero-Whitelaw Company, Manhattan insurance brokers, died of pneumonia on Monday at New York Hospital. He was 86 years old and lived in Manhattan. Carl M. Spero, retired president of the Spero-Whitelaw Company, Manhattan insurance broker
Gerald G. Probst, former chairman of the Sperry Corporation and a longtime executive in the computer and military systems industries, died at his home in Salt Lake City last Sunday. He was 65 years old. Gerald G. Probst, former chairman of the Sperry Corporation and a longtime
The Rev. Dr. Hugh Douglas McCandless, rector emeritus of the Episcopal Church of the Epiphany at York Avenue and 74th Street in Manhattan, died of cancer Sunday at his home in Hamden, Conn. He was 81 years old. The Rev. Dr. Hugh Douglas McCandless, rector emeritus of the Episc
L. Reyner Samet, a New York divorce lawyer for 50 years whose clients included Colleen Dewhurst, Lee Remick, Barbara Walters and Roy Scheider, died of heart failure Monday in Marina del Rey, Calif., while on vacation. He was 83 years old and lived in Manhattan. L. Reyner Samet
Lloyd Bentsen Sr., the millionaire rancher whose son. Lloyd Jr., was the Democratic Vice-Presidential nominee in 1988, was killed early this morning in a traffic accident in Edinburg, Tex. He was 95 years old. Lloyd Bentsen Sr., the millionaire rancher whose son. Lloyd Jr., wa
Oren C. Herwitz, a retired lawyer and a former New York City official, died of cancer Monday at his home on Treasure Island, Fla. He was 81 years old. Oren C. Herwitz, a retired lawyer and a former New York City official, died of cancer Monday at his home on Treasure Island, F
Paul Baker Sheatsley, a retired research director who was a well-known authority in public opinion polling, died of emphysema Sunday at Little Company of Mary Hospital in Chicago. He was 72 years old and lived in Chicago. Paul Baker Sheatsley, a retired research director who w
Former United States Senator Gordon Allott, who during 18 years in the Senate helped push through water projects instrumental to the economic development of Colorado and Arizona, died of cancer today. He was 82 years old and lived most of his life in Englewood. Former United S
William F. Redfield, a retired grocery executive and former president of the Hills Brothers Company, died Monday at his home in Montclair, N.J., after a long illness. He was 94 years old. William F. Redfield, a retired grocery executive and former president of the Hills Brothe
Bruce Chatwin, a British author whose first book, ''In Patagonia,'' published only a decade ago, established him as one of his generation's ranking travel writers and an elegant literary craftsman and storyteller, died Tuesday in a hospital in Nice, France. He was 48 years old and had
Dr. Everett B. Simmons Sr., a dentist for 50 years, died of cardiopulmonary arrest Monday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 86 years old and lived in Manhattan and had practiced in East Orange, N.J. Dr. Everett B. Simmons Sr., a dentist for 50 years,
Elmore Jackson, a Quaker official who attempted a secret diplomatic mission aimed at achieving a political settlement between Egypt and Israel in 1955, died of Parkinson's disease Tuesday in Newtown, Pa., where he lived. He was 78 years old. Elmore Jackson, a Quaker official w
Ernie Blake, founder of the Taos Ski Valley resort, died of pneumonia Saturday. He was 75 years old. Ernie Blake, founder of the Taos Ski Valley resort, died of pneumonia Saturday. He was 75 years old. Mr. Blake, who was inducted into the United States Ski Hall of Fame
George R. Tweed, a World War II Navy radioman who eluded Japanese forces on the Pacific island of Guam for 31 months, died Monday in an automobile accident in Northern California. He was 86 years old. George R. Tweed, a World War II Navy radioman who eluded Japanese forces on 
Harry G. Shad, a former executive vice president of the Atlantic Refining Company, died of Alzheimer's disease Thursday in the Beneva Nursing Pavilion in Sarasota, Fla., where he lived. He was 85 years old. Harry G. Shad, a former executive vice president of the Atlantic Refin
Irving M. Boroff, a retired New York school principal who devised innovative programs to deal with disruptive and other problem pupils, died of a heart attack Tuesday at Coney Island Hospital. He was 80 years old and lived in Brooklyn. Irving M. Boroff, a retired New York scho
James Wayne Cooper, a retired lawyer and former president of the Connecticut Bar Association, died of cardiac arrest Monday at his home in Woodbridge, Conn. He was 84 years old. James Wayne Cooper, a retired lawyer and former president of the Connecticut Bar Association, died 
John Loder, an actor whose tenure of more than 30 years in British and American movies was credited largely to his good looks and his imposing physique, has died in England. He was 90 years old and had homes in London and Buenos Aires. John Loder, an actor whose tenure of more
Jorge Cruickshank Garcia, a Congressman who was co-founder and leader for two decades of the Popular Socialist Party, died of a brain tumor Tuesday. He was 73 years old. With Vicente Lombardo Toledano, Mr. Cruickshank helped found the party in 1948 and had been its secretary general s
Julian L. Greifer, a former social worker who was a professor emeritus of sociology at Temple University, died of internal bleeding Saturday at Arlington Hospital in Arlington, Va. He was 87 years old and lived in Philadelphia. Julian L. Greifer, a former social worker who was
Aldo DeDominicis, who founded the first television station in New England, died Tuesday at Hartford Hospital. He was 85 years old and lived in Cheshire, Mr. DeDominicis and a partner, Patrick Goode, financed and built what is now WTNH-TV in New Haven in 1948. Earlier in the 40's, Mr. 
Dr. Carlos Carrillo, a psychiatrist and physician, died of a heart attack on Wednesday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 64 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Carlos Carrillo, a psychiatrist and physician, died of a heart attack on Wednesday at St. Vincent's Ho
Dr. Hubert Park Beck, a psychologist and retired professor of educational psychology, died of cardiac arrest Monday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 81 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Hubert Park Beck, a psychologist and retired professor of e
Dr. Michael B. Shimkin, a researcher who helped establish the link between smoking and lung cancer, died of a stroke Monday at the Medical Center of the University of California at San Diego. He was 76 years old and lived in LaJolla. Dr. Michael B. Shimkin, a researcher who he
Dr. Edgar P. Mannix Jr., a thoracic surgeon and former director of surgery at the St. Francis Hospital Heart Center in Roslyn, L.I., died Jan. 9 at his home in Escondido, Calif. He was 75 years old. Dr. Edgar P. Mannix Jr., a thoracic surgeon and former director of surgery at 
Hoyt S. Haddock, a retired maritime union official who was a former president of the United Seamen's Service, died Tuesday at his home in Towson, Md., after a long illness. He was 81 years old. Hoyt S. Haddock, a retired maritime union official who was a former president of th
Irving (Ash) Resnick, a gambling figure credited with bringing high rollers to the Las Vegas Strip, died Wednesday after a long bout with cancer. He was 72 years old. Irving (Ash) Resnick, a gambling figure credited with bringing high rollers to the Las Vegas Strip, died Wedne
James Marshutz, an advertising executive and television producer, died of cancer Jan. 12 at his home in Manhattan. He was 66 years old. James Marshutz, an advertising executive and television producer, died of cancer Jan. 12 at his home in Manhattan. He was 66 years old.      
John D. Hickerson, a former Ambassador and chairman of the group that established NATO, died of cancer Wednesday in Maryland at Bethesda Retirement and Nursing Center. He was 91 years old and lived in Washington. John D. Hickerson, a former Ambassador and chairman of the group
Frank B. Smithe, an amateur ornithologist credited with setting color standards for the science, died Sunday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. after becoming ill recently. He was 96 years old and lived in Douglaston, Queens. Frank B. Smithe, an amateur orni
Frederick M. Stern, a Wall Street broker for more than 60 years and the chairman emeritus of Gruntal & Company, died of complications after a stroke on Thursday at Montefiore Hospital. He was 84 years old and lived in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. Frederick M. Stern, a W
Lord Harding, a commander of Britain's forces in North Africa during World War II, died today at his home in Nether Compton in southwestern England after a long illness, his family said. He was 92 years old. Lord Harding, a commander of Britain's forces in North Africa during 
Louis Hausman, a broadcasting executive, died of pneumonia Wednesday at George Washington Hospital in Washington. He was 82 years old and lived in Washington. Louis Hausman, a broadcasting executive, died of pneumonia Wednesday at George Washington Hospital in Washington. He w
Russell W. Johnson, a former vice president and general manager of the communications division of the Panasonic Company, died Wednesday at Morristown (N.J.) Memorial Hospital. He was 67 years old and lived in Bernardsville, N.J. Russell W. Johnson, a former vice president and 
Carl Furillo, the right fielder for the Brooklyn Dodgers during their glory years in the late 1940's and 50's, died yesterday at his home at Stony Creek Mills, Pa. He was 66 years old. Carl Furillo, the right fielder for the Brooklyn Dodgers during their glory years in the lat
Dr. Basil Harris, former director of health services at Metropolitan Hospital Center in Manhattan, died of lung cancer yesterday in Rutland Memorial Hospital in Rutland, Vt. He was 70 years old and lived in Manchester Center, Vt. Dr. Basil Harris, former director of health ser
George Cassidy, the starter at New York Racing Association tracks for 53 years, died in his sleep early yesterday at his home in Brookville, L.I. He was 82 years old and had been ill with liver cancer. George Cassidy, the starter at New York Racing Association tracks for 53 ye
Jozef Cyrankiewicz, the Polish Prime Minister who was toppled by the violent food-price riots of 1970, died Friday, official Polish newspapers said today. He was 77 years old. Jozef Cyrankiewicz, the Polish Prime Minister who was toppled by the violent food-price riots of 1970
Dr. Marvin Klein, a pediatric neurologist, died of cancer yesterday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 52 years old and lived in Roslyn, L.I. Dr. Marvin Klein, a pediatric neurologist, died of cancer yesterday at North Shore University Hospital in Man
Max Laemmle, whose chain of art theaters exposed Los Angeles moviegoers to such international film-makers as Ingmar Bergman, Costa-Gavras and Francois Truffaut, died of pulmonary congestion Friday night at his home. He was 82 years old and lived Beverly Hills, Calif. Max Laemm
Robert M. Weitman, a former film, stage and television producer, died Friday at his home in Beverly Hills. He was 83 years old. Robert M. Weitman, a former film, stage and television producer, died Friday at his home in Beverly Hills. He was 83 years old. Born in 1905 
Buckley M. Byers, the deputy chairman of the Republican National Finance Committee since 1976, died of a stroke Friday in Georgetown University Hospital in Washington, where he lived. He was 72 years old. Buckley M. Byers, the deputy chairman of the Republican National Finance
Carl Furillo, the right fielder for the Brooklyn Dodgers during their glory years in the late 1940's and 50's, died Saturday at his home in Stony Creek Mills, Pa. He was 66 years old. Carl Furillo, the right fielder for the Brooklyn Dodgers during their glory years in the late
John Duka, a journalist who wrote with humor and grace about fashion, art and society, died Saturday morning at his Manhattan home. He was 39 years old. John Duka, a journalist who wrote with humor and grace about fashion, art and society, died Saturday morning at his Manhatta
Charles Swall, a vice president of the International Business Machines Corporation, died of heart disease Saturday at Yale-New Haven Hospital. He was 46 years old and lived in Darien, Conn. Charles Swall, a vice president of the International Business Machines Corporation, die
David Monroe Collins, administrator and assistant secretary of the Frick Collection, died in his sleep Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 51 years old. David Monroe Collins, administrator and assistant secretary of the Frick Collection, died in his sleep Thursday at his
Fraser Wilkins, who was the first United States Ambassador to the Republic of Cyprus, died of a stroke Saturday at Sibley Memorial Hospital here. He was 80 years old. Fraser Wilkins, who was the first United States Ambassador to the Republic of Cyprus, died of a stroke Saturda
George Case, who led the American League in stolen bases six times, died at a hospital here today. He was 73 years old. Mr. Case, who lived in Morrisville, Pa., had suffered from emphysema. George Case, who led the American League in stolen bases six times, died at a hospital 
Michael Lepiner, president of Telecom Entertainment, producers of programs for commercial television, died of pancreatic cancer Sunday at Mt. Sinai Medical Center. He was 46 years old and lived in Manhattan. Michael Lepiner, president of Telecom Entertainment, producers of pro
Morley Drury, an all-America running back at Southern California in 1927, when he became the first Trojan to rush for 1,000 yards in a season, died Sunday at the age of 85. Morley Drury, an all-America running back at Southern California in 1927, when he became the first Troja
Prof. Sydney Goldstein, an authority on aerodynamics, died of heart failure Sunday at Cardinal Cushing Hospital, Brockton, Mass., after a brief illness. He was 85 years old and lived in Randolph, Mass. Prof. Sydney Goldstein, an authority on aerodynamics, died of heart failure
Robert Grimshaw Eoff, one of the last survivors of the Lafayette Escadrille, died of pneumonia Friday at his home here. He was 93 years old. Robert Grimshaw Eoff, one of the last survivors of the Lafayette Escadrille, died of pneumonia Friday at his home here. He was 93 years 
Salvador Dali, pioneer of European Surrealism and for more than half a century one of the best-known and most bitterly contested figures in the international art world, died yesterday at Figueras Hospital in Figueras, Spain. He was 84 years old. Salvador Dali, pioneer of Europ
Long Island faces a paradox of power, political and electrical, of national consequence. Its generating capacity has so narrow a margin of safety that blackouts could begin this summer. A remedy is at hand in the form of Shoreham, the Long Island Lighting Company's 800-megawatt nuclea
Tim Cohane, who was the sports editor of Look magazine from 1944 until it ceased publication in 1965, died Sunday at a health care center in Nashua, N.H., after a lengthy illness. Mr. Cohane, who lived in Derry, N.H., was 76 years old. Tim Cohane, who was the sports editor of 
Arthur S. Hirsch, a retired New York State Supreme Court justice, died of heart failure Sunday at Villa Maria Nursing Home in Bay Harbor, Fla., where he was visiting. He was 80 years old and lived in Manhattan. Arthur S. Hirsch, a retired New York State Supreme Court justice, 
Carl F. Jellinghaus, a retired executive editor of The Record newspaper in Hackensack, N.J., died of congestive heart failure yesterday in Norwalk (Conn.) Hospital. He was 71 years old and lived in Westport, Conn. Carl F. Jellinghaus, a retired executive editor of The Record n
Charles C. Hornbostel, a former holder of the world-best time for the 600-yard run indoors and the first full-time president of Financial Executives Institute, died of Parkinson's disease Jan. 13 in New London, N.H. Mr. Hornbostel, who had residences at Granthan, N.H., and Savannah, G
James F. Collins, a four-star general in the United States Army who in retirement served as president of the American Red Cross in the Vietnam War, died of prostate cancer on Sunday at Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington. He was 83 years old and lived in McLean, Va. 
Jerome Doyle, a corporate lawyer who in retirement donated his services as the public defender for the Barnstable County (Mass.) District Court, died of heart failure Monday at Cape Cod Hospital in Hyannis, Mass. He was 79 years old and had lived in Osterville, Mass., since retiring f
John Frederick Davidson, a retired rear admiral who was superintendent of the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, Md., from 1960 to 1962, died Saturday at his home in Annapolis after suffering a heart attack. He was 80 years old. John Frederick Davidson, a retired rear a
Morley Drury, an all-America running back at Southern California in 1927, when he became the first Trojan to rush for 1,000 yards in a season, died Sunday at the age of 85. Morley Drury, an all-America running back at Southern California in 1927, when he became the first Troja
Morris Goldsmith, one of the last surviving members of the Jewish Legion, died Monday at the John F. Kennedy Medical Center in Edison, N.J. He was 98 years old and lived in Toms River, N.J. Morris Goldsmith, one of the last surviving members of the Jewish Legion, died Monday a
Dr. Thomas B. McConnell, professor emeritus at the University of California Graduate School of Education at Berkeley, died of heart failure Jan. 16 at his home in Oakland, Calif. He was 87 years old and suffered from Parkinson's disease. Dr. Thomas B. McConnell, professor emer
Willie Wells, a shortstop who batted .358 over his career in the Negro leagues from 1924-45 but never played in the major leagues, died last Sunday. He was 82 years old. Willie Wells, a shortstop who batted .358 over his career in the Negro leagues from 1924-45 but never playe
Dr. Carlos Alfredo Yorio, a professor of linguistics at Lehman College and at the City University Graduate Center, died Monday at New Rochelle (N.Y.) Hospital. He was 48 years old and lived in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. Dr. Carlos Alfredo Yorio, a professor of linguis
Charles C. Hornbostel, a former holder of the world-best time for the 600-yard run indoors and the first full-time president of Financial Executives Institute, died of Parkinson's disease Jan. 13 in New London, N.H. He was 77 years old. Charles C. Hornbostel, a former holder o
Clarence Norris, the last survivor of the ''Scottsboro Boys'' rape case, which became a symbol of racial injustice in the Deep South in the 1930's, died Monday at Bronx Community Hospital after a long illness. He was 76 years old. Clarence Norris, the last survivor of the ''Sc
Gilbert L. Voss, professor emeritus of biological oceanography at the University of Miami, died of liver cancer Monday at his home in Miami. He was 70 years old. Gilbert L. Voss, professor emeritus of biological oceanography at the University of Miami, died of liver cancer Mon
Joseph B. Ridder, the retired publisher and president of The San Jose Mercury News, died of complications from emphysema Monday at Queens Hospital in Honolulu, where he lived. He was 68 years old and also had a home in Saratoga, Calif. Joseph B. Ridder, the retired publisher a
Lord Basnett, a former union leader often blamed by his fellow members of the Labor Party for helping to put Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher in power, died today. He was 64 years old. Lord Basnett, a former union leader often blamed by his fellow members of the Labor Party fo
Michael Lland, a dancer and ballet master at the American Ballet Theater, died last Friday at Tuomey Hospital in Sumter, S.C. He was 64 years old. Michael Lland, a dancer and ballet master at the American Ballet Theater, died last Friday at Tuomey Hospital in Sumter, S.C. He w
Nathan L. Jacobs, a retired associate justice of the New Jersey Supreme Court and an influential figure in court reform in the state, died yesterday at his home in Livingston, N.J. He was 83 years old. Nathan L. Jacobs, a retired associate justice of the New Jersey Supreme Cou
Sam Halper, a journalist who was with Time magazine for many years, died of Alzheimer's disease Tuesday at the Wilton Meadows Health Care Facility in Wilton, Conn. He was 72 years old and lived in Wilton. Sam Halper, a journalist who was with Time magazine for many years, died
Warren H. Reed, a specialist in management training and a retired vice president of Paine Webber, died of AIDS on Sunday at University Hospital in Stony Brook, L.I. He was 62 years old and lived in Cherry Grove, L.I. Warren H. Reed, a specialist in management training and a re
Chauncey Devereux Stillman, an investor and philanthropist, died Tuesday at his apartment in Manhattan. He was 81 years old. Chauncey Devereux Stillman, an investor and philanthropist, died Tuesday at his apartment in Manhattan. He was 81 years old. Mr. Stillman was a 
Chester Hammond, a retired industrialist who served as a millitary aide to Franklin D. Roosevelt, died of cardiac arrest Tuesday at the Maplewood Manse Rest Home in Peterborough, N.H. He was 77 years old and lived in Peterborough. Chester Hammond, a retired industrialist who s
Rabbi Hershel Cohen, a Talmudic scholar and the spiritual leader of Ahawas Achim B'nai Jacob synagogue in Newark for several decades, died of congestive heart failure last Friday at St. Barnabas Medical Center in Livingston, N.J. He was 89 years old and a resident of Livingston.      
J. Floyd Andrews, the retired president of Pacific Southwest Airlines, died of lung cancer Tuesday at Sharp Memorial Hospital in San Diego. He was 69 years old and lived in San Diego. J. Floyd Andrews, the retired president of Pacific Southwest Airlines, died of lung cancer Tu
Dr. Michael Gilbert, a pediatrician and one of the founding physicians at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I., died of heart failure Tuesday at his home in Glen Cove, L.I. He was 69 years old. Dr. Gilbert was born in Brooklyn and graduated from Washington & Lee Universi
Oliver H. Durrell, retired chairman of Durrell Publications, a publisher of books on New England and the Bahamas, died of congestive heart failure Wednesday at New Hanover Memorial Hospital in Wilmington, N.C., where he lived. He was 81 years old. Oliver H. Durrell, retired ch
Robert W. Burmester, national director of accounting and auditing for the Arthur Young accounting firm, died of a heart attack Monday night at his home in Darien, Conn. He was 58 years old. Robert W. Burmester, national director of accounting and auditing for the Arthur Young 
Dr. Robert Rienow, a retired professor of political science at the State University of New York at Albany and an author and environmentalist who had warned about the depletion of natural resources, died on Sunday in a fire that destroyed his farmhouse in Selkirk, N.Y. He was 79 years 
A. William Salomone, professor emeritus of history at the University of Rochester, died of cancer Tuesday at Lankenau Hospital in Philadelphia. He was 73 years old and lived in Ardmore, Pa. A. William Salomone, professor emeritus of history at the University of Rochester, died
Professor Albert Hofstadter, professor emeritus of philosophy at Columbia University and the University of California at Santa Cruz, died of a heart attack Thursday at his home in Santa Cruz. He was 78 years old. Professor Albert Hofstadter, professor emeritus of philosophy at
Carlisle H. Humelsine, former chairman of the Colonial Williamsburg Foundation, died of heart disease Wednesday at Williamsburg (Va.) Community Hospital. He was 73 years old and lived in Williamsburg. Carlisle H. Humelsine, former chairman of the Colonial Williamsburg Foundati
Dr. H. Claude Hudson, a national director of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and a longtime civil rights advocate, died of pneumonia Thursday. He was 102 years old. Dr. H. Claude Hudson, a national director of the National Association for the Adv
D. William Violi, a dealer in historical opera and vocal recordings, died of heart disease on Thursday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 74 years old. D. William Violi, a dealer in historical opera and vocal recordings, died of heart disease on Thursday at his home in Brooklyn. 
Dr. John Douglas French, a neurosurgeon who helped found and for 20 years directed the U.C.L.A. Brain Research Institute, died of Alzheimer's disease Wednesday. He was 77 years old. Dr. John Douglas French, a neurosurgeon who helped found and for 20 years directed the U.C.L.A.
Emanuel A. Salma, former associate dean of the College of Engineering and Science at New York University, died of congestive heart failure on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 81 years old. Emanuel A. Salma, former associate dean of the College of Engineering and Scien
Jerry Blatt, a composer and lyricist who had collaborated with Bette Midler since 1975, died Jan. 19 in Amsterdam. He was 47 years old. Jerry Blatt, a composer and lyricist who had collaborated with Bette Midler since 1975, died Jan. 19 in Amsterdam. He was 47 years old.      
John S. Holden, founder of the Colorado Rocky Mountain School in Carbondale, Colo., died of cancer Sunday in Glenwood Springs, Colo. He was 77 years old and lived in Carbondale. John S. Holden, founder of the Colorado Rocky Mountain School in Carbondale, Colo., died of cancer 
John McCallum Jr., a pianist and musical director for Off Off Broadway and touring theatrical productions, died of a heart attack Monday at his home. He was 36 years old and lived in Manhattan. John McCallum Jr., a pianist and musical director for Off Off Broadway and touring 
Robert B. Kelly, a Navy PT boat commander whose exploits in World War II were chronicled in the best-selling book ''They Were Expendable'' and the film of the same name, died of pneumonia Monday at Howard County General Hospital in Columbia, Md. He was 75 years old and lived in Columb
Sir Thomas Sopwith, whose companies built the British Sopwith Camel plane of World War I fame, died yesterday at his manor house outside Winchester in southern England. He was 101 years old. His son, Thomas, said he died of old age after a ''marvelous life.'' He was an aircraft design
William A. Ott, president and publisher of The San Jose Mercury News, died of cancer Thursday, He was 61 years old. William A. Ott, president and publisher of The San Jose Mercury News, died of cancer Thursday, He was 61 years old. He is survived by his wife, Bettie, f
Martin Popper, a lawyer who was active in left-wing causes in the years after World War II and who was executive secretary of the National Lawyers Guild, died of cancer of the prostate Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 79 years old. Martin Popper, a lawyer who was active
Jay Rosenblum, an abstract painter, died Friday in St. Vincent's Hospital after suffering massive injuries in an accident with a bus while he was bicycling. He was 55 years old and lived in Manhattan. Jay Rosenblum, an abstract painter, died Friday in St. Vincent's Hospital af
Robert LeRoy Knudsen, a White House photographer from 1946 until 1974, died of a heart attack Friday at the Bethesda Naval Hospital in Maryland. He was 61 years old and lived in Annandale, Va. Robert LeRoy Knudsen, a White House photographer from 1946 until 1974, died of a hea
Robert William Haymes, a composer and broadcast producer, died of Lou Gehrig's disease Saturday at his home in Hilton Head Island, S.C. He was 65 years old and also had a home in Greenville, S.C. Robert William Haymes, a composer and broadcast producer, died of Lou Gehrig's di
The Panchen Lama, Tibet's most important spiritual leader after the Dalai Lama and a crucial figure in China's policy toward the region, died Saturday night during a visit to Tibet, China announced today. He was 50 years old. The official news organizations reported that he had died o
Curt George Segeler, a retired chemical engineer and a Boy Scout leader for almost 66 years, died of cancer on Jan. 22. He was 88 years old and lived in Brooklyn. Curt George Segeler, a retired chemical engineer and a Boy Scout leader for almost 66 years, died of cancer on Jan
John Newton Gentry, a lawyer and labor arbitrator who served as Under Secretary of Labor in the Carter Administration, died of cancer Friday at Washington Hospital Center in Washington. He was 58 years old and lived in Reston, Va. John Newton Gentry, a lawyer and labor arbitra
Dr. Lawrence Henry Chamberlain, a former dean of Columbia College and a retired vice president of Columbia University, died of a stroke Sunday at the Community Hospital of the Monterey Peninsula in Monterey, Calif. He was 82 years old and lived in Pacific Grove. Dr. Lawrence H
Leslie Halliwell, the author of several encyclopedic guides to film, died of cancer on Jan. 21 at the Princess Alice Hospice in Surrey, England. He was 59 years old. Leslie Halliwell, the author of several encyclopedic guides to film, died of cancer on Jan. 21 at the Princess 
Morton Da Costa, a director who had four Broadway hits in three years during the mid-1950's, died Sunday at Danbury (Conn.) Hospital. He was 74 years old and lived in West Redding, Conn. Morton Da Costa, a director who had four Broadway hits in three years during the mid-1950'
Richmond Crinkley, who became the focus of intense controversy during his five years as executive director of the Vivian Beaumont Theater at Lincoln Center in the early 1980's, died of cancer Sunday at the Medical College of Virginia in Richmond, Va. He was 49 years old. Richm
Robert LeRoy Knudsen, a White House photographer from 1946 until 1974, died of a heart attack Friday at the Bethesda Naval Hospital in Maryland. He was 61 years old and lived in Annandale, Va. Robert LeRoy Knudsen, a White House photographer from 1946 until 1974, died of a hea
