 E. Carrington Boggan, a leading advocate of equal rights for gay men and women, died on Jan. 20 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 48 years old. He died of AIDS, his family said. As a lawyer, he represented gay litigants in several important cases. He also helped found the L
 Edmond C. Malhame, a publisher of Catholic books, died on Jan. 23 at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 76 years old and was a resident of Manhasset. He died of lymphoma, his family said. Mr. Malhame was the president of Malhame & Company-The Regina Pr
 Joseph Kestutis Valiunas, a longtime leader in the independence movement for the Baltic states, died on Saturday at Southampton Hospital in Southampton, L.I. He was 68 years old and was a resident of Southampton. He died of heart failure after a long illness, his family said.       
 Leonard N. Cohen, a retired justice of the New York State Supreme Court and a former Deputy Borough President of Manhattan, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 71 years old and lived all his life in the same Upper West Side neighborhood. He died of a heart attack, sai
 Oscar De Mejo, a painter and children's-book illustrator, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 80 years old and also had a home in Pawling, N.Y. He died of colon cancer, said his wife, Dorothy. Mr. De Mejo's primitive and sometimes surreal paintings have been exh
 Sidney R. Diamond, a real-estate developer and philanthropist who contributed to the restoration of Bethesda Fountain in Central Park, died on Thursday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 91 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of complications from congestive h
 William L. Weissel, a former assistant manager of the New York Philharmonic and executive secretary to its board, died on Wednesday at Doctor's Hospital. He was 80 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of complications from pneumonia, said his wife, Carmine. Mr. Weissel 
 Dr. Christopher P. Kales, a physician and a former professional ballet dancer and national figure skating competitor, died Jan. 23 at New York University Medical Center. He was 35 years old and was a resident of Manhattan. He died of encephalitis resulting from complications from AI
 H. Gregg Lewis, a leader in modern labor economics, died on Jan. 25 at his home in Chapel Hill, N.C., after a long illness. He was 77 years old. For 36 years beginning in 1939, Dr. Lewis taught at the University of Chicago, where he directed the graduate program in economics for man
 James H. Halpin, a former leader of the New York City Bar Association, died on Monday at his home in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 89 years old. He died of cancer, his family said. For 30 years he was active in the bar association, serving as its vice president, chairman of the ex
 John E. Alcorn, a noted illustrator and designer whose versatile work ranged from a United States postage stamp to book jackets for the Rizzoli publishing company and movie titles for Fellini, died on Monday at the Laurence and Memorial Hospital in New London, Conn. He was 56 years old and 
 Mel Hein, the great center-linebacker who was the iron man and captain of the Giants teams that won seven division titles and two league championships in the 1930's and 1940's, died Friday night at his home in San Clemente, Calif. He was 82 years old and died of stomach cancer, his 
 Carleton Shugg, an innovator in the early development of submarines in the 1920's who three decades later helped build the first modern nuclear-powered and missile-bearing submarines, died on Jan. 23 at his home in Mystic, Conn. He was 92 years old. He died of natural causes after a
 Judge Irving R. Kaufman, who gained national attention in 1951 as the judge who sentenced Julius and Ethel Rosenberg to the electric chair and who wrote landmark decisions in First Amendment, antitrust and civil rights cases for more than 30 years on the Federal bench, died on Saturday nigh
 Mel Hein, the great center-linebacker who was the iron man and captain of the Giants teams that won seven division titles and two league championships in the 1930's and 1940's, died Friday night at his home in San Clemente, Calif. He was 82 years old and died of stomach cancer, his 
 Edwin C. Whitehead, an industrialist who was a major supporter of biomedical research, collapsed and died on Sunday while playing squash at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 72 years old and also had homes in Manhattan and in Vail, Colo. He died of a heart attack, his family said.
 Dr. James C. Cain, a specialist in internal medicine at the Mayo Clinic for 30 years and the longtime personal physician to President Lyndon B. Johnson and his family, died on Saturday at his home in Rochester, Minn. He was 78 years old. Dr. Cain died of cancer, said Hoyt J. Finnamo
 Francis Birch, professor emeritus of geology at Harvard University and co-designer of an atomic bomb, died on Friday in Cambridge, Mass. He was 88 years old and lived in Cambridge. He died of prostate cancer, said his wife, Barbara. Much of his career was devoted to studying
 John Haber, an opera director, teacher and Zen Buddhist monk, died last Wednesday at New York Hospital. He was 46 years old and lived at the Dai Bosatsu Zendo, a Zen monastery in Livingston Manor, N.Y. He died of AIDS, said his brother, James Haber of Wayland, Mass. Mr. Habe
 Herman (Junior) Cook, a tenor saxophonist, was found dead on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 57 years old. The cause of death has not been determined, said Beatrice Henellin, his companion. Mr. Cook, a prominent figure in New York jazz ensembles since the mid-1950's
 Dr. Jean Hamburger, a pioneer in the field of kidney transplants, an acclaimed writer and president of the French Academy of Sciences, died Saturday in Paris. He was was 82 years old. He died from complications after heart surgery, said Dr. Thomas E. Starzl, professor of surgery at 
 Paul A. Freund, an authority on constitutional law and the Supreme Court who taught at Harvard Law School for 37 years, died yesterday at his home at Cambridge, Mass. He was 83 years old. Professor Freund, who retired in 1976 as Carl M. Loeb University Professor, died of cancer of t
 Rollin Van Nostrand Hadley, former director of the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in Boston, died on Sunday at his home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 64 years old, and had moved to Florida in December. He died of a heart attack, said his daughter Sarah. Mr. Hadley was adm
 Samuel C. Brightman, the Democratic National Committee's deputy chairman and spokesman during the Truman, Kennedy and Johnson Administrations, died on Jan. 29 at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 80 years old and lived in Bethesda, Md. Mr. Brightman died of emphysema, h
 Harding Foster Bancroft, a retired vice chairman of The New York Times, former diplomat and lawyer whose counsel helped shape The Times's decision to publish the Pentagon Papers in 1971, died yesterday at Sarasota Memorial Hospital, near his Boca Grande, Fla., winter home. He was 81 years o
 Leo C. Maitland, a prominent surgeon in Harlem, died last Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 64 years old. He died of heart failure, his family said. He was known as "doctor to the stars" because his patients ranged from Miles Davis to Geoffrey Holder, as well as his ch
 Richard E. Brackeen, a longtime aerospace executive who was former chief executive officer of the Fairchild Space and Defense Corporation, was shot on Wednesday at his home in Great Falls, Va., and died soon afterward at Fairfax Hospital. He was 53 years old. He died of a single gun
 Maj. Gen. Robert N. Ginsburgh, retired, a former staff member of the National Security Council and military aide to President Lyndon B. Johnson, died on Monday at the Bethesda Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, Md. He was 68 years old and lived in Chevy Chase, Md. He died of pneumoni
 Roger Colloff, vice president and general manager of the CBS network flagship, WCBS-TV, Channel 2 in New York, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 46 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of cancer of the colon, the hospital said. Mr. Collof
 Theodor Herzl Gaster, a scholar of comparative religion whose popular works made the myths of the ancient world accessible to large audiences, died on Monday in Osteopathic Hospital in Philadelphia. He was 85 years old and lived in Philadelphia. Hospital officials said he died of he
 Benjamin Newman, a real-estate lawyer in Manhattan, died on Monday at White Plains Hospital. He was 70 years old and lived in Scarsdale, N.Y. He died of a cerebral hemorrhage, his family said. Mr. Newman was born in the Bronx. He was a graduate of City College and the New Yo
 Benjamin Shalleck, whose 38 years on the bench made him one of New York City's longest-serving judges, died Wednesday at the Palm Beach Gardens Medical Center in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. He was 95 years old and lived in West Palm Beach, Fla. He died after suffering a stroke, his fam
 The Rev. Robert W. Hovda, a leader in the movement to revise the Roman Catholic liturgy during and after the Second Vatican Council, died on Wednesday in his Manhattan apartment. He was 71 years old and died of heart failure, funeral home officials said. From 1965 to 1978, Father Ho
 Theodore (Teddy) Blume, a violinist, died Tuesday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 75 years old. He died of emphysema, said his son, Robert. Mr. Blume was a violinist with several major jazz and semi-jazz orchestras. He first performed with Sigmund Romberg's orchestra in the 
 Vincent Ferrara, a judge in New York State Family Court for 27 years, died Tuesday at Mountainside Hospital in Glen Ridge, N.J. He was 76 years old and lived in Upper Montclair, N.J. He died of heart failure, a family member said. Appointed by Mayor Robert F. Wagner as a jus
 Walter Thompson Ash, an actor and stage manager who was a member of Orson Welles's Mercury Theater, died on Feb. 1 at the Cohler Memorial Hospital on Roosevelt Island. He was 78 years old and lived on Roosevelt Island. He died of pneumonia, said his sister, Doris Malvicini of Patcho
 Henderson Supplee Jr., the former president and chairman of the Atlantic Refining Company, died on Monday at Bryn Mawr Hospital in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 88 years old and lived in Radnor, Pa. He died of complications from cancer, a family spokesman said. Mr. Supplee was born 
 John W. Queenan, a retired leader in the accounting profession and a former member of the Federal Wage and Price Control Board, died on Friday at Greenwich Hospital in Greenwich, Conn. He was 86 years old and was a resident of Greenwich and of Tequesta, Fla. He died after surgery fo
 John deLaittre, a retired bank president, Federal regulator and spokesman for the banking and mortgage industry, died Tuesday at Abbott Northwestern Hospital in Minneapolis. He was 84 years old and lived in Minneapolis. He died of heart failure, his family said. Mr. deLaittr
 Dr. Ishak Ramzy, a leader in the development of child psychoanalysis, died on Thursday at St. Francis Hospital in Topeka, Kan. He was 80 years old and lived in Topeka. He died of natural causes after a brief illness, his family said. Dr. Ramzy was a student and colleague of 
 John deLaittre, a retired bank president, Federal regulator and spokesman for the banking and mortgage industry, died Tuesday at Abbott Northwestern Hospital in Minneapolis. He was 84 years old and lived in Minneapolis. He died of heart failure, his family said. Mr. deLaittr
 Ray E. Helfer, a pioneer in the prevention of child abuse, died on Jan. 27 at Sparrow Hospital in East Lansing, Mich. He was 62 years old and lived in East Lansing. He died of complications from a stroke he suffered while visiting a son studying in Spain, his family said. Dr
 Alex Haley, the Pulitzer Prize-winning author of "Roots: The Saga of an American Family," which chronicled his ancestors' origins in Africa and their passage from slavery to freedom in America, died yesterday at Swedish Hospital Medical Center in Seattle. He was 70 years old and had homes i
 Clarence A. Barnes Jr., an author and advertising agency art director, died at his home in Manhattan on Feb. 2. He was 85 years old and also had a home in Edgartown, Mass. He died of emphysema, his family said. During his 40-year career, Mr. Barnes worked for several adverti
 Dr. John Ashmead, a professor emeritus of English at Haverford College who was a pioneer in the use of computers in humanities research and was also a scholar of Japanese, died on Friday at Bryn Mawr Hospital in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 74 years old and lived in Haverford, Pa. He died 
 Anthony Astrachan, a writer, editor and former foreign correspondent for The Washington Post, died on Monday at New York University Medical Center. He was 59 years old and lived in Hoboken, N.J. He died of a heart attack, said his son Joshua, of Brooklyn. Mr. Astrachan was t
 Hy Zausner, the visionary who founded the Port Washington Tennis Academy, which has nurtured John McEnroe, Vitas Gerulaitis and some 10,000 lesser young players since it was established on Long Island in 1965, died yesterday at St. Francis Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 84 years old.   
 Robert W. Russell, a writer for films and the Broadway theater, died on Tuesday at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 79 years old and lived in New York City. He died of heart failure after suffering a stroke, his wife, Rinaldina, said. Mr. Russell co-wrote the screenpl
 Dr. Alfred L. Copley, who had dual careers as an abstract artist and as a medical researcher, died on Jan. 28 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 81 years old and was a resident of Manhattan. He died of cancer, his family said. Pergamon Press is preparing a book abou
 Dr. Nahman Avigad, an eminent Israeli archeologist who led excavation of the vestiges of the workaday Jerusalem that the Romans razed in A.D. 70 together with the Second Temple, died on Jan. 28 in Jerusalem. He was 86 years old. His death was reported in New York by American Friends
 Ray Danton, an actor and director whose career embraced film, theater and television, died on Tuesday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 60 years old. He died of complications from a kidney ailment, said Jill Danton, a daughter-in-law. Mr. Danton began act
 Robert W. Russell, a writer for films and the Broadway theater, died on Tuesday at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 79 years old and lived in New York City. He died of heart failure after a stroke, said his wife, Rinaldina. Mr. Russell co-wrote the screenplay for "The
 James M. Carpenter, who developed the art department at Colby College and founded its art museum, drowned along with his daughter on Tuesday in an ocean swimming accident in Puerto Rico. Dr. Carpenter, 77 years old, was a resident of Waterville, Me. His daughter, Jane Poliquin, an a
 Meade Roberts, a playwright and screenwriter associated with Tennessee Williams, died on Monday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 61 years old. He died after a heart attack, said Joyce Chase, his manager. Mr. Roberts, born in New York, attended New York University and worked
 Daniel Sotomayor, whose cartoons about gay political issues were widely published in the homosexual press, died on Feb. 5 at the Illinois Masonic Medical Center in Chicago. He was 33 years old and lived in Chicago. A friend, Lori Cannon, said the cause of death was AIDS. Car
 Walter J. Sheerin, a longtime state and local labor leader in New York and an advocate for laws improving pensions and other benefits, died on Jan. 30 at Winthrop University Hospital in Mineola, L.I. He was 83 years old and was a resident of New Hyde Park, L.I. He died of heart fail
 William Schuman, a composer whose distinctly American style won two Pulitzer Prizes and guided him as the founding president of Lincoln Center and the president of the Juilliard School, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 81 years old. He died after hip surger
 Robert F. Kelly, a former state Assemblyman from Brooklyn who became the first head of the New York State Commission on Cable Television, died on Saturday at Lutheran Medical Center in Brooklyn. He was 74 years old and had residences in both Bay Ridge, Brooklyn and Breezy Point, Queens.    
 Jim Pepper, a tenor saxophonist who was best known for writing the song "Witchi-Tai-To," died last Monday at home in Portland, Ore. He was 50 years old. He died of lymphoma, said his mother, Floy Pepper. Mr. Pepper, an aggressive saxophonist with a hard, crying tone, first c
 Melvin L. Sokolow, a literary agent, television producer and national amateur squash champion, died on Saturday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 58 years old and lived in Manhattan. The cause of death was cancer, his family said. Mr. Sokolow was born in Bro
 Merton Y. Koplin, the award-winning producer of some of television's most popular and critically acclaimed programs and a central figure in the scandal over rigged quiz shows, died on Saturday at University Hospital in Manhattan. He was 71 years old and a resident of Manhattan. His 
 Dr. Hacib Aoun, a doctor who championed the rights of health-care workers after becoming infected with H.I.V. on the job, died Sunday at his home in Glen Arm, Md. He was 36 years old. Dr. Aoun died of complications from AIDS, said a friend, Lee Koromvokis. Dr. Aoun was one o
 Janio da Silva Quadros, whose abrupt resignation as President of Brazil in 1961 touched off a crisis that led the military to seize power, died Sunday at the Albert Einstein Hospital in Sao Paulo, Brazil. He was 75 years old. The hospital said Mr. Quadros had died of kidney and lung
 Les Trautmann, who was the editor of The Staten Island Advance for 27 years, died yesterday at his home on Staten Island. He was 73 years old. Mr. Trautmann, who was the daily newspaper's editor until his death, suffered a heart attack, said Brian J. Laline, associate editor of the 
 Lord Fieldhouse, commander of the British battle fleet that sailed to retake the Falkland Islands from Argentine forces, died in a hospital today at the age of 63, the Defense Ministry said. As Adm. Sir John Fieldhouse, he was commander in chief of the battle fleet during the 1982 F
 Andor Foldes, a Hungarian-born American pianist who was closely associated with the music of Bela Bartok and who was also a respected interpreter of the Viennese Classical composers, died at his home in Herrliberg, Switzerland, on Feb. 9. He was 78 years old. He died after falling d
 David Eisler, a tenor who sang many leading roles at the New York City Opera, died on Sunday at the Park Plaza Hospital in Houston. He was 36 years old and lived in Houston. He died of pneumonia, said his manager, Merle Hubbard. Mr. Eisler was born on Dec. 20, 1955, in Evans
 John Goldsmith Phillips, former chairman of the department of Western European arts at the Metropolitan Museum, died on Monday in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 85 years old and had lived in the Palm Beach area since he retired in 1971. He died of cancer, said his son Anthony.        
 Gen. James H. Polk, a commander of the United States Army in Europe during the cold war, died Tuesday at the William Beaumont Army Medical Center in El Paso. He was 80 years old and lived in El Paso. He had been suffering from cancer and pneumonia, said a relative, Shirley Leavell. 
 John M. Burns, a former state legislator, advertising and broadcast executive and officer of several nonprofit agencies, died on Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 67 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of pancreatic cancer, his family said. Mr. Burns,
 Robert L. Levine, a longtime business lawyer and entrepreneur, died Tuesday at Brookhaven Memorial Hospital in East Patchogue, L.I. He was 86 years old and lived in Brooklyn and Palm Beach, Fla. He died of heart failure, his family said. In his 62 years as a lawyer, he was i
 Andrew Schenck, the music director of two New York ensembles, the Nassau Symphony Orchestra and the Atlantic Sinfonietta, died on Wednesday at his home in Baltimore. He was 51 years old. He died of melanoma, said Marvin Schofer, his former manager. Mr. Schenck was best known
 Don Gussow, a publisher who founded several trade magazines and wrote four books, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 84 years old. He died of natural causes, his family said. Mr. Gussow was born in what is now Lithuania and came to the United States in 1920. 
 Eugene Robert Black, a courtly Georgian who became one of the world's most influential figures as president of the World Bank from 1949 to 1962, died in his sleep early yesterday at his home in Southampton, L.I. He was 93 years old. Mr. Black probably died of heart failure and had s
 Joseph L. Fisher, an expert on natural resources and an economist who advised two Presidents, served in Congress and was a local and state official in Virginia, died on Wednesday at his home in Arlington, Va. He was 78 years old. He died of a brain tumor, his family said. Dr
 Roberto d'Aubuisson, a rightist leader and former national guard officer who was widely believed to be a principal proponent of assassinations by "death squads" during El Salvador's civil war, died yesterday in San Salvador, his doctor reported. Mr. d'Aubuisson was 48 years old. He 
 Louis Sobol, who founded Caviarteria, a specialty foods business that supplies Americans with millions of dollars worth of caviar each year, died Thursday in the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York. He was 72 years old. He died of leukemia, his family said. Mr
 O. Jack Mitchell, a professor of architecture, died on Tuesday at his home in Houston. He was 60 years old. He died of a heart attack, said his wife, Carolyn. Mr. Mitchell had been a professor of architecture at Rice University in Houston since 1966, and served both as the d
 William A. Arrowsmith, a scholar and translator of the classics and modern literature who became a widely quoted critic of American higher education, died on Thursday at his home in Brookline, Mass. He was 67 years old. He died apparently of heart failure, an assistant said.        
 Charles H. Page, a noted sociologist and educator, died Feb. 9 at his home in Northhampton, Mass. He was 82 years old. He died of cancer, his wife said. Dr. Page was born in Tonawanda, N.Y., and grew up in Chicago. He earned a bachelor's degree from the University of Illinoi
 James W. Wagner, longtime director of the National Spelling Bee, died last Sunday at Good Samaritan Hospital in Cincinnati, his hometown. He was 70 years old. His family said the cause of death was prostate cancer. Mr. Wagner worked for Scripps Howard Newspapers for 39 years
 Jerome Weinstein, a builder and real-estate developer, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 63 years old and also had a home in Mamaroneck, N.Y. Mr. Weinstein died of complications from a stroke, his family said. He was born in New York City and attended Vander
 Lawrence B. Hilford, a pioneer in the videocassette industry, who founded the Orion Home Entertainment Corporation, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 57 years old. He died after a long battle with lymphoma, his family said. Mr. Hilford retired last year as chai
 Charles H. Page, a noted sociologist and educator, died Feb. 9 at his home in Northampton, Mass. He was 82 years old. He died of cancer, his wife said. Dr. Page was born in Tonawanda, N.Y., and grew up in Chicago. He earned a bachelor's degree from the University of Illinois
 James G. Scileppi, who was a Federal prosecutor in New York City, a suburban developer on Long Island and a champion horseman, died on Thursday at Holy Cross Hospital in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 93 years old and lived in Fort Lauderdale. He died of heart failure after suffering 
 The Rev. Jamie W. Buckingham, a leading charismatic Christian preacher and author who criticized the excesses of television evangelists, died Monday at the Holmes Regional Medical Center in Melbourne, Fla. He was 59 years old and lived in Palm Bay, Fla. He died of liver cancer, his 
 Lawrence B. Hilford, a pioneer in the videocassette industry, who founded the Orion Home Entertainment Corporation, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 57 years old. He died after a long battle with lymphoma, his family said. Mr. Hilford retired last year as chai
 Alfred L. Scheinberg, a private dealer in African art, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 43 years old. He died of brain cancer, said Walter Perini, his companion. Mr. Scheinberg sold African art to many prominent collectors and to the Metropolitan Museum of Art
 Avraham Harman, chancellor of the Hebrew University in Jerusalem and former Israeli Ambassador to the United States, died Sunday at the Hadassah University Hospital in Jerusalem. He was 77 years old and lived in Jerusalem. He died of complications from pneumonia, a family member sai
 Eldon Cessna, who designed airplanes that saved the Cessna Aircraft Company in the 1930's, died Saturday in a hospital. He was 84. Mr. Cessna was the son of the company's founder, Clyde Cessna. Cessna Aircraft, of Wichita, Kan., specializes in making small planes. In 1930, E
 The Rev. Dr. John Sutherland Bonnell, who gained a national reputation as a preacher in his 26 years as pastor of the Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church in New York City, died at his home in Roseburg, Ore., on Sunday. He was 99 years old. He died of natural causes, said his son-in-law
 Josiah W. Bennett, a retired Foreign Service officer who served as political adviser to the last two American ambassadors to South Vietnam, died Saturday at Hillhaven Extended Care, a nursing home in Santa Cruz, Calif. He was 75 years old. He had had Alzheimer's disease, his family 
 Charles Nagel, a former director of the Brooklyn Museum and other art institutions, died last Thursday at a hospital in Wareham, Mass. He was 93 years old and had lived for the last seven years in Marion, Mass. He died of pneumonia, said his wife, the former Lucie Lull Oliver.      
 Gilbert Chase, a musicologist, critic and the author of important studies of American and Spanish music, died on Saturday at North Carolina Memorial Hospital in Chapel Hill. He was 85 years old and had lived in Chapel Hill since his retirement from teaching in 1979. He died of pneum
 Harry Whittaker Sheppard, a dancer and choreographer active in post-modernist companies in New York City, died on Friday in the Zieken Huis Rijnstate DH, a hospital in Arnhem, the Netherlands. He was 47 years old. He died of AIDS, said Yoshiko Chuma, whose company, the School of Har
 John F. Geisse, an early leader in discount merchandising who founded three major store chains, died on Friday at his home in Indianapolis. He was 71 years old. Mr. Geisse died of a heart attack, his family said. He was the founder, chairman and chief executive officer of th
 Dr. Oscar T. Broneer, an archeologist and former professor of the University of Chicago who discovered an important Panhellenic shrine dating from the seventh century B.C., died on Saturday at his home in Ancient Corinth, Greece. He was 97 years old. He died of heart failure, said D
 Sheldon H. Gorlick, a lawyer, an editor and an authority on taxes and professional incorporation, died on Monday at Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 63 years old and lived in Ridgewood. He died of complications resulting from leukemia, his wife, Herthe, said. Specia
 Walter J. Loria, a lawyer in Manhattan for 63 years and an inventor of electronic devices, died on Monday in Good Samaritan Hospital in Suffern, N.Y. He was 84 years old and lived in Manhattan and Palm Beach, Fla. He died of complications from a stroke suffered a year ago, his famil
 Bernard M. Shanley, a top White House aide to President Dwight D. Eisenhower and a prominent New Jersey lawyer and politician, died on Tuesday at his home in Bernardsville, N.J. He was 88 years old. He died of natural causes after a brief illness, his family said. Mr. Shanle
 John Wilson, a founding member of the Joffrey Ballet and a composer and teacher, died on Monday in the Veterans Administration Hospital in Manhattan. He was 64 years old. He died of AIDS, said his sister, Diane Wilson Lloyd. Mr. Wilson performed, created and taught dance and
 Donald P. Ruddy, a designer of furniture and accessories and the publisher of a portfolio of art by people with AIDS, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 38 years old. Mr. Ruddy died of complications from AIDS, including Kaposi's sarcoma, said his companion, Edgardo H
 Herschel B. Chipp, an art historian and authority on the work of Pablo Picasso, died on Feb. 8 at Kaiser Permanente Medical Center in San Francisco. He was 78 years old and lived in San Francisco. He had been hospitalized several weeks earlier after a stroke, a spokesman for the Uni
 Robert R. Slaughter, a lawyer, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 67 years old. He died of cancer, his family said. Mr. Slaughter had a general law practice, including corporate law, litigation and matrimonial cases. Most of his career was at the Manhattan la
