 Bill Crofut, a singer, composer and master banjo player whose style often defied categorization, died on Jan. 25 at his home in Sandisfield, Mass. He was 64. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Susan. Though he surfaced during the folk-music boom in the late 1950's, Mr. Cro
 Frederick Sommer, whose distinctive images of Surrealist collages, horizonless landscapes, blurry nudes and cameraless abstractions influenced generations of photographers, died on Jan. 23 at his home in Prescott, Ariz. He was 93. Variously described as a gadfly, an eccentric, a pho
 Ed Herlihy, a radio announcer whose voice charted the course of World War II for moviegoers, then for the better part of 40 years spoke for Kraft foods on radio and television, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 89. In his early successes, few could recall his name or
 Huntz Hall, who for 20 years played the slow-witted sidekick of Leo Gorcey in more than 80 ''Bowery Boys,'' ''Dead End Kids'' and ''East Side Kids'' movies, died on Saturday in Los Angeles. He was 78. The cause was cardiac disease, his family said. Rarely, if ever, has a bit
 Mason Walsh, a former publisher of The Arizona Republic and The Phoenix Gazette, died on Saturday of complications from pneumonia. He was 86 and lived in Scottsdale, Ariz. In 1966, he became general manager of the Arizona papers and in 1975 was given the additional job of assistant 
 Former Gov. Mills Edwin Godwin Jr. of Virginia, who rose above his segregationist past to become one of his state's most effective chief executives, died on Saturday in Newport News, Va. He was 84 and lived in Suffolk, Va. Governor Godwin had just been released from Riverside Hospit
 Alfred Edward Luders Jr., an innovative boat designer and racer who built the America's Cup yacht Weatherly, died Sunday at his home in Stamford, Conn. He was 89. Mr. Luders, known as Bill, blended an avocation, racing sailboats, with his vocation as director of the Luders Marine Co
 Elias Newman, a painter active in New York and Israel and best known for his watercolor landscapes, died yesterday at Beekman Hospital in Manhattan. He was 95 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Newman was born in Poland in 1903 and immigrated with his family to New York when he was 10. He 
 Mario A. Zacchini, the last surviving member of the original generation of human cannonballs, whose routine employment was being explosively propelled from a cannon across a circus tent into a net, succumbed to old age on Thursday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Tampa, Fla. He was 87 and lived 
 Paul Mellon, the patrician collector who tenaciously turned philanthropy into his personal art form, above all through his stewardship of the National Gallery in Washington, died on Monday at his home in Upperville, Va. He was 91. A son of enormous wealth, Mr. Mellon turned from his
 Warren E. Miller, a political science professor who was one of the foremost authorities on Americans' voting behavior and their electoral politics, died on Saturday at Scottsdale Healthcare Osborn hospital in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 74 and lived in Scottsdale. The cause was complic
 Adm. Harold E. Shear, retired, a onetime Vice Chief of Naval Operations and veteran submariner who helped build the nation's undersea armada into a powerful nuclear force, died on Monday at his home in Groton Long Point, Conn. He was 80 and, his family said, had long been ill. For 2
 John S. Service, the first of the ''old China hands'' purged from the State Department in the McCarthy era, died yesterday in Oakland, Calif. He was 89. As a young Foreign Service officer in World War II, he filed prescient reports on the rival forces battling the occupying Japanese
 Franklin Keysar, a production stage manager for more than 20 Broadway shows, died on Jan. 25 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 60 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was liver cancer, his publicist said. Mr. Keysar, who was born in Warren, N.H., graduated from the Bo
 Jacob Reingold, a leader in caring for the aged who laid groundwork for the nationwide observance of Grandparents Day, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 83 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. At his death, Mr. Reingold was vice chairman of the Hebrew Home for
 Joseph Kingsbury-Smith, a former national editor and chief foreign writer of Hearst Newspapers, died on Wednesday at his home in Waterford, Va. He was 90. Mr. Kingsbury-Smith served the Hearst empire for seven decades, starting in 1924 as a 16-year-old office boy at its wire agency,
 Dr. John Frosch, a New York psychoanalyst and author who founded The Journal of the American Psychoanalytic Association, died in his sleep on Feb. 2 at his home in Great Neck, N.Y. He was 89. Born on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, Dr. Frosch graduated from the City College of New
 Erich Hartmann, a photographer who documented the remains of the Nazi death camps, died on Thursday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 76 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Hartmann immigrated to the United States with his family in the 1930's. He served in the army in Europe in Wor
 Morton J. Mitosky, a Broadway lawyer and colorful backstage fixture who outlived nearly everyone of his own era, died yesterday at Cabrini Hospital Hospice. He was 91 and lived in Ventnor, N.J. In his heyday, Mr. Mitosky, an adviser to Broadway investors, had a behind-the-scenes par
 Norman Bluhm, a prominent member of what has often been called the ''second generation'' of Abstract Expressionist painters, died on Wednesday at his home in East Wallingford, Vt. He was 78. The cause was heart failure, said Meyer Raphael Rubenstein, a friend. Mr. Bluhm's wo
 The folk and pop singer Baris Manco, who had great cultural influence in Turkey and became one of this country's most beloved figures, died here on Monday. He was 56 and lived in Istanbul. The cause was a heart attack, relatives said. Tens of thousands of people, many in tea
 Herman (Pat) Herst Jr., who was so enthralled by a stamp he saw in a Manhattan store window when he was 7 that he grew up to be the stamp world's most revered dealer, auctioneer and collector and by far its most garrulous booster and most prolific authority, died on Jan. 31 at his home in B
 Nicholas Krushenick, a New York painter whose bold, posterlike paintings were often called abstract Pop, died Friday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 70 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was liver cancer, his family said. Mr. Krushenick was born in New York
 Wassily Leontief, who won the Nobel prize in economics in 1973 for his analyses of America's production machinery, showing how changes in one sector of the economy can exact changes all along the line, affecting everything from the price of oil to the price of peanut butter, died Friday nig
 Ben Margolis, a California lawyer known for his spirited counseling and defense of movie-industry figures who had been blacklisted, died on Jan. 27 in Portland, Ore. He was 88. His death was reported on Saturday by The Associated Press. In the early 1950's, after Mr. Margoli
 King Hussein of Jordan, who died yesterday at 63, successfully straddled two worlds in more than four tumultuous decades on the throne. Cautious by instinct and habit, King Hussein took pride in his Western impulses and his Arab roots, though he acknowledged that the combination som
 Josef Meier, who brought his Passion play to the United States from Germany in 1932 and continued in the role of  Jesus for six decades, died on Jan. 31  in Spearfish, S.D. He was 94. Mr. Meier was the seventh generation of his family to portray Jesus in the drama, remaining in the 
 Armand Schwerner, a poet whose work inspired an extraordinary range of dance, performance and theatrical presentations, died on Thursday at his home on Staten Island. He was 71. His son, Adam, said the cause was cancer. In more than three decades Mr. Schwerner published abou
 Marius Schoon, an opponent of apartheid who had been fighting an amnesty application by the police spy who killed Mr. Schoon's wife and daughter with a mail bomb, died here on Sunday. He was 61. The cause was lung cancer, said Hugh Lewin, a friend who spent seven years in prison wit
 Norman R. Glenn, the founder and publisher of two advertising and broadcasting magazines, died on Friday in New York City. He was 89. The cause was complications from a stroke, said his wife, Roberta. In the 1930's, Mr. Glenn held executive positions at WLS, a Chicago radio 
 Rod Sorge, a former executive of the Harm Reduction Coalition, a private organization that promotes services for drug users and other people on the fringes of society, was found dead in his upper Manhattan apartment on Jan. 28. He was 30. He died of AIDS-related causes, the coalitio
 Hector Alejandro Galindo Amezcua, a prolific film director who created his own genre of movies set in Mexico's urban underworld, died on Feb. 1. He was 93. Mr. Galindo, who was known in the Mexican film world as Don Alex, directed or wrote scripts for more than 70 films, virtually a
 Martin J. Norris, a retired Coast Guard administrative law judge who wrote widely cited books on maritime law, died Monday at Sound Shore Hospital in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 91 and lived in Eastchester, N.Y. Judge Norris held his post from 1956 until he retired in 1970, said his w
 Dr. Eliot Corday, a Los Angeles cardiologist who played a major role in conveying American knowledge about cardiology to other countries, particularly underdeveloped ones, died on Monday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 85 and lived in Beverly Hills, Calif. At h
 Dr. Franklin Asbury Long, an emeritus professor at Cornell University, former Government adviser and advocate of international arms reductions, died on Monday at a nursing home in Pomona, Calif. He was 88 and had lived in Ithaca, N.Y., and Claremont, Calif. A chemist by training, Dr
 Herbert Klynn, a pioneer in film and television animation, died on Feb. 3 at a hospital in Tarzana, Calif. He was 81. Mr. Klynn helped create prize-winning cartoon shorts, including ''Mr. Magoo,'' ''Gerald McBoing-Boing'' and ''Madeline,'' at the United Productions of America Studio
 Dr. John Lambert Cotter, an archeologist who dug into America's ancient and not-so-ancient past, died on Friday at a retirement residence in Philadelphia. He was 87. Dr. Cotter retired as curator emeritus from the University of Pennsylvania Museum of Archeology and Anthropology but 
 Spencer A. Samuels, a leading art dealer for more than 50 years, died on Jan. 30 at St. Johns Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 85 and lived in Santa Monica. Mr. Samuels was born into the business. The son of Mitchell Samuels, a co-founder of French & Company, a major New York
 Col. Robert S. Scott, who as a junior Army officer won the Medal of Honor in World War II for beating back a Japanese counterattack in the battle for an airstrip in the Solomon Islands and killing 28 enemy soldiers despite being wounded twice, died on Feb. 5 at his home in Santa Fe, N.M. He
 Danny Dayton, an actor and director, died on Saturday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 75 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was emphysema, his publicist said. As an actor on television, Mr. Dayton played the character known as Hank Pivnik on ''All in t
 Gideon Rafael, a founder of the Israeli Foreign Ministry and one of its most accomplished and longest-serving diplomats, died on Wednesday in Jerusalem. He was 85. In a career that began before Israel was established in 1948, Mr. Rafael negotiated with the Nazis to send Jews to Pale
 Ira Leonard Mintz, a child psychiatrist and psychoanalyst who wrote extensively on eating disorders afflicting children, died on Tuesday at his home in Closter, N.J. He was 72. The cause was pneumonia, his family said. Dr. Mintz, who had his private practice in Englewood, N.
 Whitney Tower, the longtime racing writer and former president of the National Museum of Racing and Hall of Fame, who became a legendary figure at race tracks throughout the world with his courtly manner and rich personal pedigree, died yesterday at his home in Saratoga Springs, N.Y. He was
 Albert Beryl Hudes, who organized galas that raised millions of dollars for the New York City Opera and March of Dimes Birth Defect Foundation, died Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 75. He had suffered from a bone-marrow cancer called multiple myeloma and from chronic kidney 
 Irwin C. Watson, a comedian who appeared frequently on television in the 1950's and 60's and in nightclubs throughout the country, died on Feb. 1 at the Winter Park Memorial Hospital in Orlando, Fla. He was 70 and lived in Orlando. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Edlyne
 Leonard James Arrington, the dean of Mormon historians, died on Thursday at his home in Salt Lake City. He was 81. The cause was heart failure, his family said. An economist by training, Dr. Arrington had a notable parallel career as an economic historian of the American Wes
 Stanley C. Gillette, a former clothing industry executive, died on Feb. 4 at his home in New York City. He was 81 years old. The cause was prostate cancer, said his wife, Joan. Mr. Gillette joined Phillips-Jones, the manufacturer of Van Heusen brand shirts and other men's we
 Victor G. Bloede, a former advertising executive who helped introduce the slogan ''Good to the last drop'' for Maxwell House coffee as well as other enduring advertising campaigns for consumer products, died on Wednesday in Boca Raton, Fla., from complications after surgery. He was 79.     
 In the 1930's, when polo was a sport of the rich, a Texan named Cecil Smith began a career that made him perhaps the greatest player in the history of a game more than 2,000 years old. On Jan. 21, the one-time polo-pony wrangler died in Boerne, Tex., where he had lived more than 30-years. H
 David Golding, a former managing editor of the Mediterranean edition of the Army newspaper Stars and Stripes in Rome during World War II, died at St. John's Hospital, in Santa Monica, Calif., yesterday. He was 85 and lived in Los Angeles. Under Mr. Golding, Stars and Stripes publish
 Dr. Max Samter, an immunologist recognized internationally for research that led to improvements in patient care and for a groundbreaking textbook, died on Tuesday at his home in Evanston, Ill. He was 90. Dr. Samter fled Germany in 1937, early in his medical career, fearing retribut
 Jaki Byard, a pianist, saxophonist and teacher who recorded with some of jazz's most important figures,  died on Thursday in his house in Hollis, Queens. He was 76. Police are investigating the death of Mr. Byard, who was found shot in the home he shared with his two daughters. Deni
 Joe M. Kilgore, a Texas Democrat who was a Congressman from 1955 to 1965 and advised Lyndon B. Johnson, died on Wednesday. He was 80 and a longtime resident of Austin. Where he died was not disclosed. In later life he was a partner in the Austin law firm of McGinnis, Lochrid
 Thomas Banyacya, who spent half a century on a tireless and often thankless Hopi spiritual mission to save the planet from the ravages of modern materialism and greed, died on Feb. 6 at a hospital in Keane Canyon, Ariz., about 40 miles from his home in Kykotsmovi on the Hopi reservation. He
 Ben Edwards, one of the most important and productive scenic designers on Broadway for more than 50 years, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82. The cause was pneumonia associated with lymphoma, said his wife, the costume designer Jane Greenwood. Distinguished 
 Germain Green Glidden, a national squash racquets champion, painter, muralist, cartoonist and founder in 1959 of the National Art Museum of Sport, died last Tuesday in Norwalk (Conn.) Hospital. He was 85 and lived in the Silvermine area of Norwalk. Mr. Glidden was born in Binghamton
 Harold A. Felix, a New York City Labor Commissioner under Mayor Robert F. Wagner, died on Jan. 20 at his home on the Upper East Side. He was 93. He was Commissioner from 1957 to 1962. Mr. Felix and Mayor Wagner had been close friends since both were young political workers in the De
 Jean Ballarin, who on a day in 1941 drew his saber, spurred his horse and galloped headlong into French military history, died on Feb. 3 in his home in Paris. He was 84 and was recalled as the last man to have led a French cavalry charge. As cavalry charges go, or went, the one Mr. 
 John D. Ehrlichman, who served as President Richard M. Nixon's pugnacious defender and domestic policy chief and went to prison for his role in the Watergate scandals, died on Sunday at his home in Atlanta. He was 73. Mr. Ehrlichman had been suffering from diabetes for about a year,
 Carl Ally, a hard-hitting, high-flying advertising man who helped show Madison Avenue the error of its genteel ways through a series of blunt ads that turned upstarts like Federal Express and MCI into industry giants and him into an industry legend, died on Monday. He was 74 and the founder
 Dr. George E. Shambaugh Jr., one of the world's foremost authorities on disorders of the ear and a pioneer in the use of the operating microscope to prevent deafness in people with a congenital defect in the inner ear, died on Feb. 7 at his home in Sandwich, Ill. He was 95. He was s
 Dr. Henry Way Kendall, one of three physicists who shared a Nobel Prize for confirming that tiny particles called quarks were the basic building blocks of matter, died on Monday while on an underwater photography shoot in Wakulla Springs State Park, south of Tallahassee, Fla. He was 72 and 
 Herbert Kline, a pioneer documentary filmmaker who chronicled the political crises in Europe in the 1930's and 40's, died on Feb. 5 in Los Angeles. He was 89. Mr. Kline called himself ''a foreign correspondent of the screen.'' He saw his job as going beyond the superficial reporting
 Jimmy Dudley, who joined the Indians' broadcast booth in 1948, their memorable pennant-winning season, and became the highly popular radio voice of Cleveland baseball for two decades, died last Friday in Tucson, Ariz. He was 89 and a member of the broadcasters' wing of the Baseball Hall of 
 Brig. Gen. Thomas William Mattingly, a retired cardiologist who treated President Dwight D. Eisenhower during several of his illnesses, died on Friday in Davidson, N.C., where he had lived for the past decade. He was 92. Dr. Mattingly, a former chief of cardiology at Walter Reed Med
 Gary Jennings, a prolific writer whose books included the best-selling novel ''Aztec,'' about the Aztec war against the Spanish conquistadors, died on Saturday at his home in Pompton Lakes, N.J. He was 70. The cause was heart failure, said his brother, Hiram. Mr. Jennings's 
 Gerald Dickler, a New York lawyer who represented artists, writers and broadcasters, including some of those blacklisted in the McCarthy era, died last Saturday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 86 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause was pneumonia, his famil
 Dr. Paul R. Esserman, an internist who juggled the multiple lives of teacher, corporate physician, private practitioner and occasional medical diplomat, died Saturday at New York University Medical Center. He was 76 and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Esserman, a Brooklyn native who entered
 Dr. William Kessen, a developmental psychologist whose research, theoretical contributions and teaching at Yale University helped shape the thinking of a generation of child psychologists, died on Saturday at a hospital in New Haven. He was 74 and lived in Branford, Conn. The cause 
 Albert P. Gagnebin, the former president and chairman of the International Nickel Company, died on Sunday at the Jupiter Medical Center in Jupiter, Fla. Mr. Gagnebin, a resident of Jupiter and of Little Silver, N.J., was 90. Mr. Gagnebin joined the research division of Inco, as Inte
 Anthony Francis Shannon, a former reporter and Pulitzer Prize winner, died Tuesday at his home in Warren Township, N.J. He was 69. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Catherine. Mr. Shannon and two colleagues at The New York World-Telegram and The Sun, Sylvan Fox an
 Former Representative Jeffery Cohelan, a liberal Democrat from California who served in the House for 12 years before becoming executive director of the Group Health Association in 1970, died on Monday at his home in Washington. He was 84. The cause was Parkinson's disease and cance
 Thomas A. McMahon, a whimsical American synthesizer who fused sciences in a pioneering academic career in biomechanics even as he blended science and literature, died on Sunday on the way to a hospital near his home in Wellesley, Mass. He was 55, and was both the Gordon McKay Professor of A
 Harry Holiday Jr., a former chief executive of the steelmaker Armco Inc. and a world champion swimmer, died on Tuesday in Boynton Beach, Fla. He was 75 and lived in Village of Golf, Fla., and Highlands, N.C. The cause was a heart attack, Terry B. Adamson, his son-in-law, said.      
 Kurt Robert Eissler, the New York psychoanalyst who founded, directed and defended the Sigmund Freud Archives and then handpicked a successor who ended up plunging the archive into a sea of trouble, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 90. Until the 1980's Dr. Eissler 
 Lorin H. Tryon Jr., whose lifelong love of cars made him a leading connoisseur of classic automobiles, died on Feb. 12 at the San Ramon Valley Medical Center in San Ramon, Calif. He was 71 and lived in Danville, Calif. The cause was a heart attack, said the Blackhawk Automotive Muse
 Gene Siskel, the slighter, intense half of the popular Siskel and Ebert team of dueling movie reviewers, died yesterday at a hospital near his home in Chicago, two weeks after leaving the long-running syndicated television program for further recuperation from brain surgery last May.       
 Paul Schmidt, a librettist, translator, poet, teacher and actor who collaborated with many major avant-garde theater artists, died at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center on Friday. He was 65. The cause of death was complications of AIDS, said his brother Jim. Mr. Schmidt wa
 William D. McElroy, a biologist and administrator who never abandoned his first love in research, fireflies, died on Wednesday at Scripps Memorial Hospital in San Diego. He was 82 and lived in San Diego. Dr. McElroy was the director of the National Science Foundation for three years
 Curtis L. Carlson, who borrowed $55 from his landlord in 1938 and didn't look back until he had turned a fledgling grocery store trading stamp company into one of the world's largest private businesses,  died on Friday at a hospital near his home in Minneapolis. He was 84 and had been the s
 Gene Siskel, the slighter, intense half of the popular Siskel and Ebert team of dueling movie reviewers, died Saturday at a hospital near his home in Chicago, two weeks after  leaving the long-running syndicated television program for further recuperation from brain surgery last May. He was
 Marvin Stone, a founder and chairman emeritus of the Stone Container Corporation in Chicago, died Feb. 14 at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. Mr. Stone, 89, also lived in Chicago. Stone Container was started by Mr. Stone, his father and two brothers in 1926 with a $2,300 investment. It 
 Teruo Kawamoto, the head of an organization of victims of Minamata disease, a debilitating illness of the nervous system caused by mercury poisoning, died on Thursday in a hospital in Minamata, a city in southwestern Japan. He was 67 and lived in Minamata. The cause was liver cancer
 Wilmer (Vinegar Bend) Mizell, a fastballing left-hander with a well-publicized country-boy image who pitched for nine seasons in the National League, then served as a Congressman from North Carolina and an official in the Ford and Reagan Administrations, collapsed and died Sunday while visi
 The Rev. Walter Lini, an Anglican priest who led the 83 Melanesian islands of Vanuatu and their 172,000 people to nationhood, died on Sunday. The former Prime Minister was 57 and had governed the country for 11 years before he stepped down in 1991. Father Lini was born on Pentecost,
 Howard Boatwright, a prolific composer who was also a concert violinist, a musicologist and the author of a widely used music theory textbook, died on Saturday at Crouse Memorial Hospital in Syracuse. He was 80 and lived in Fayetteville, N.Y. The cause was heart failure, said John H
 Gregory J. Andrews, the president and chief executive of Carson Inc., which makes hair and beauty products for African-Americans, died on Sunday in Johannesburg during a business trip. Mr. Andrews, a resident of Savannah, Ga., was 47. The cause of death has not been determined, said
 Willard R. Espy, who had such a winsome way with words, such an elegant ear for rhyme and such a sure sense of the absurd that he once began a poem with the words ''I do not roister with an oyster,'' died on Saturday at New York Hospital. He was 88 and had elevated wordplay to a career, as 
 William M. Bronk, a poet known for the philosophical depth of his work, died on Monday at his home in Hudson Falls, N.Y. He was 81. He had emphysema and died of respiratory failure, said his editor, Edward Foster. Mr. Bronk, who was descended from Jonas Bronck, for whom the 
 Andre Dubus, a prize-winning author celebrated for his short stories in ''Dancing After Hours'' and other collections, died Wednesday at his home in Haverhill, Mass. He was 62. The cause was a heart attack, said Gabrielle Brooks, a representative of Mr. Dubus's publisher, Alfred A. 
 Charles Blitzer, a founder and director emeritus of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in Washington and a past president of Phi Beta Kappa, died on Friday at his home in Washington. He was 71. The cause was pulmonary disease, his family said. Dr. Blitzer f
 Sir Anthony Nutting, a Deputy Foreign Secretary who sacrificed a potentially brilliant political career by resigning over Britain's involvement in the 1956 attack on Suez, died of heart failure at his home in London on Tuesday. He was 79. He had been the youngest member of Winston C
 Gen. Andre Devigny, a legendary figure in the French Resistance for his escape from the Gestapo chief Klaus Barbie's prison in German-occupied Lyons during World War II, has died at his home in Hauteville-sur-Fier, France. General Devigny, whose dash to freedom inspired the French director 
 Dr. Glenn T. Seaborg, leader of the scientific team that created plutonium -- the fuel used in the atomic bomb that destroyed Nagasaki in 1945 -- died on Thursday night at his home in Lafayette, Calif. Dr. Seaborg, who was 86, died of complications of a stroke he suffered last Augus
 Jose Quintero, the director whose reverent stagings of ''The Iceman Cometh'' and ''Long Day's Journey Into Night'' led to a worldwide revival of interest in the Nobel Prize  plays of Eugene O'Neill, died yesterday. He was 74 and lived in Sarasota, Fla. The cause was cancer, said Rob
 Stanley Dance, a jazz critic, Ellington specialist and record producer, died on Tuesday at the Remington Club in Rancho Bernardo, Calif. He was 88 and lived in Vista, Calif. Mr. Dance is perhaps best known as a member of Duke Ellington's close-knit group of friends, and for nearly 7
 The name Cockburn's means port to many aficionados around the world. But grape farmers in the ruggedly mountainous Douro River valley of Portugal still call the shipper Casa Smithes. To them it is irrelevant that John Henry Smithes, who died in England on Jan. 22 at the age of 88, r
 Michael St. Clair, director of the Babcock Galleries in Manhattan for 40 years and an influential dealer in American art, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 86 and also had a home on Fire Island, N.Y. A dapper, exquisitely mannered man who rarely talked about himself, M
 Winthrop K. Edey, who found nothing so fascinating as the mechanical clarity of antique clocks and the minutiae of his own offbeat life, died on Monday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center, near his home on the Upper West Side. He was 61 and had devoted his life to assembling one of the 
