 Edward Rivera, the author of the autobiographical novel ''Family Installments: Memoirs of Growing Up Hispanic'' and an assistant professor at City College of New York, died on Aug. 25 in Manhattan, where he lived. He was 62. The cause was a heart attack, said his brother Richard.   
 Dr. Josef Fried, an organic chemist whose work with steroid hormones and other compounds was applied to pharmaceutical products, died on Aug. 17 in a retirement community in Chicago. He was 87. Dr. Fried was most noted for his subtle alteration of chemical structures, which enabled 
 Stephen Gorove, a jurist who was among the first to tackle the legal angles of the conquest of space, died on May 20 in Oxford, Miss., where he was a professor emeritus at the University of Mississippi. He was 83. His scholarship in international and space law became a cornerstone o
 Carmine Nigro, the first chess teacher of the former world champion Bobby Fischer, died Aug. 16 at a hospice in Peachtree City, Ga. He was 91 and lived in Peachtree City. Mr. Nigro (pronounced NIGH-grow) met Mr. Fischer at a chess exhibition at the Brooklyn Public Library in 1951 in
 F. Perry Wilson, who led the Union Carbide Corporation, the chemical company, from 1971 through 1976, died on Aug. 22 at his home in Lincoln, Neb. He was 86. He had a stroke, The Omaha World-Herald said. Mr. Wilson was chairman and chief executive of Union Carbide, then base
 Stephen F. Keating, the president of Honeywell from 1965 to 1974, died on Monday at his home in Wayzata, Minn. He was 83. The cause was a heart ailment, The Associated Press reported. Mr. Keating was the sixth president of Honeywell, a computer business, which was then based
 Dr. Christiaan N. Barnard, the South African surgeon who performed the world's first human heart transplant in 1967, died yesterday in Cyprus. He was 78. Dr. Barnard suffered a fatal asthma attack in the morning after going for a swim at a coastal resort in Paphos, where he had been
 Jimmy Jones, who created a racing dynasty with his father, Ben Jones, as the Calumet Farm trainers who won the Kentucky Derby eight times, died yesterday at a hospital in Maryville, Mo. He was 94. Jones's racing career spanned 60 years, during which Calumet Farm became the leading o
 SPEAKING of Labor Day, there are easier jobs than being The Rat. First off, there is this problem of being a streetwise 15-foot-tall inflatable gray beast with fierce red eyes, prominent white fangs and claws poised in a fighting stance. There is the undeniable reality, too, that Th
 Capt. Jack O. Bennett, a retired American pilot, died on Aug. 26 in Berlin, his adopted hometown, where he was celebrated as a hero of the Berlin Airlift of 1948-49. He was 86. The Berlin government credited him with making the first flight, on June 23, 1948, of the effort that brok
 Crash Davis, an obscure 1940's infielder who emerged as something of a celebrity when Kevin Costner became his namesake playing a shrewd but fading minor leaguer in the movie ''Bull Durham,'' died last Friday at his home in Greensboro, N.C. He was 82. He had cancer, his family said.
 Julian W. Scheer, whose deft handling of public relations helped foster America's fascination with the space program from the early orbits of Earth until the first Moon landing, died on Saturday at his cattle ranch in Catlett, Va. He was 75. The cause was a tractor accident, his wif
 Sir Arthur Gilbert, a British-born real estate developer and philanthropist who donated his valuable collection of silverware and other decorative arts to a new museum in London that carries his name, died on Sunday in Los Angeles, his home for the last five decades. He was 88. His 
 Thomas W. Dewart, former president and publisher of The Sun, the long-defunct New York newspaper, died on Sept. 2 at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 90. On Jan. 4, 1950, Mr. Dewart and his family sold The Sun to the New York World-Telegram, a Scripps-Howard newspaper. The combin
 George M. Skurla, a former president of the Grumman Corporation who led a unit that put the finishing touches on six small spacecraft that carried the astronauts from the Apollo capsule to the moon landings, died on Sunday at Holmes Regional Medical Center in Melbourne, Fla. He lived in Sat
 Judge James Lopez Watson, one of the most senior black members of the federal judiciary, died Saturday at his home in Harlem. He was 79. The cause was cancer, his family said. At his death, he was a senior judge on the United States Court of International Trade, having been 
 Leonard Marshall Wright Jr., a former New York advertising executive whose many writings about trout fishing were initially seen as blasphemous by traditional anglers, died Aug. 24 on the way to a hospital near his summer home in Claryville, N.Y., in the Catskills. He was 78. A former resid
 Dr. Sheldon Datz, who helped develop a technique to observe the interplay of molecules during chemical reactions, died on Aug. 15 in Oak Ridge, Tenn. He was 74. The cause was pneumonia following pulmonary fibrosis, said the Oak Ridge National Laboratory, where Dr. Datz worked for mo
 Dr. Edward Victor Zegarelli, a retired Columbia University dean and oral pathologist who cataloged and documented the more than 400 known diseases of the mouth and jaw, died on Sunday at his home in Sleepy Hollow, N.Y. He was 88. Dr. Zegarelli served more than 40 years on the facult
 Heywood Hale Broun, the television commentator, sports correspondent and writer known for his wit and elegant commentary, died Wednesday at Kingston (N.Y.) Hospital. He was 83. Mr. Broun underwent surgery for a broken hip last spring. The hospital did not list a cause of death.     
 Robert McAfee Brown, a Presbyterian theologian who played a prominent role in the ecumenical and liberation theology movements, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Greenfield, Mass. He was 81. He lived in Palo Alto, Calif., and had a summer home in Heath, Mass. His wife, Sy
 Dr. Irving Rust, a Bronx physician who was the lead plaintiff in the Supreme Court case Rust v. Sullivan, which sought to affirm the right of doctors in federally financed institutions to mention abortion to their patients, died on Thursday at New York Hospital. He was 71. The cause
 Heywood Hale Broun, the television commentator and writer who cast an irreverent eye on the world of sports with a flair reflecting yet another career as an actor, died Wednesday at Kingston Hospital in Kingston, N.Y. He was 83. Mr. Broun, who had a particular fondness for horse rac
 Norman D. Forster, owner and president of Léron Inc., a luxury linen shop in Manhattan, died on Aug. 30 at New York-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 87 and lived in Manhattan. For more than 50 years, he ran the company his parents, Charles and Margaret Forster, founded in
 Robert Half, the founder and president of Robert Half International, an employment agency, died on Aug. 31 in Lantana, Fla. Mr. Half, a resident of Palm Beach, was 82. The cause was complications from a stroke he suffered in July, said Marc Silbert, a son-in-law. Mr. Half died at th
 Jim Drake, who helped conceive the grape boycott of the 1960's and went on to organize workers and citizens in Mississippi, South Texas, the Bronx and Boston, died on Monday at a hospital in Pittsfield, Mass. He was 63 and lived in Manhattan and Spencertown, N.Y. The cause was lung 
 Robert R. Nathan, an economist who helped lead the nation's industrial mobilization in World War II, died on Sept. 4 at a group home in Bethesda, Md. He was 92 and lived in Bethesda. Mr. Nathan spent most of the 1930's with the Commerce Department before becoming chairman of the War
 Samuel H. Miller, who was the pilot of the first scheduled United States trans-Atlantic jet passenger flight from New York City to Paris, died on Aug. 31 in Bradenton, Fla. He was 84 and lived in Bradenton. Captain Miller was chief pilot of Pan American World Airways' Atlantic divis
 Igor Buketoff, an American conductor whose specialties were Russian music, particularly Rachmaninoff's, and contemporary opera, died on Friday at a hospital in the Bronx. He was 87 and lived in Manhattan. In recent years Mr. Buketoff was best known for his orchestration of the first
 Roger Starr, an outspoken thinker on urban affairs who blended a lifetime of intellectual analysis with hands-on public service and whose often provocative vision of his native New York City influenced public policy debates for decades, died yesterday in Easton, Pa. He was 83. Mr. S
 Joseph S. Berliner, a longtime Brandeis University economics professor credited with helping spur changes in the Central Intelligence Agency's methods of appraising the Soviet economy, died on Sept. 2 at a Boston hospital. He was 79 and lived in Cambridge, Mass. The cause was compli
 Peter Rosenthal, senior executive vice president of the Manhattan public relations firm Rubenstein Associates, died on Monday. He was 54 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was kidney failure, said his wife, Terri Thompson. Mr. Rosenthal joined the company in 1976 as an accoun
 Richard G. Green, a lawyer who defended First Amendment freedoms, died on Sept. 3 at his home in Manhattan. He was 87. Mr. Green was the defense lawyer in a celebrated Vietnam War-era case involving Stephen Radich, owner of the Radich Gallery at 818 Madison Avenue. Mr. Radich was tr
 Dr. Wardell B. Pomeroy, a prominent psychologist who half a century ago helped Dr. Alfred C. Kinsey rechart the sexual landscape of America, died on Sept. 6 at the retirement community where he lived in Bloomington, Ind. He was 87 and had been suffering from Parkinson's disease, his family 
 Daniel C. Lewin, a co-founder of Akamai Technologies Inc., a leading developer of Internet services, died on Tuesday in the World Trade Center attack, the company said. He was 31. Mr. Lewin was aboard American Airlines Flight 11, a Boeing 767 that took off from Boston Tuesday mornin
 John Gavin Hurd, a Texas oilman chosen by President Richard M. Nixon to be ambassador to South Africa in the apartheid era, died on Thursday at his home in San Antonio. He was 87. Mr. Hurd held the post from 1970 to 1975, beginning soon after the Nixon administration ordered a revie
 The Rev. Mychal F. Judge, a chaplain with the New York City Fire Department since 1992, died amid a rain of debris at the World Trade Center on Tuesday as he ministered to victims. He was 68 and lived in a Franciscan friary across West 31st Street from a firehouse. His head was stru
 Peter J. Ganci, the New York City Fire Department's highest-ranking uniformed officer, died on Tuesday in the collapse of the World Trade Center towers. He was 54. His death was confirmed yesterday by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Fire Commissioner Thomas Von Essen. Chief Ga
 William Feehan, the Fire Department's second-highest official, whose knowledge and cunning in battling fires himself made him the stuff of legend to his firefighters, died Tuesday when the south tower of the World Trade Center collapsed on his command station. He was 71 and lived in Flushin
 Alvin Schwartz, long prominent in New York City's real estate industry as an associate of and successor to the real estate magnate Harry Helmsley, died on Wednesday at his home in Great Neck, N.Y. He was 89. Mr. Schwartz became one of two co-chairmen of the real estate concern Helms
 Christian Adams, a prime promoter of German wines as deputy director of the German Wine Institute, a quasi-governmental organization, died on Tuesday aboard the hijacked plane that crashed in southwestern Pennsylvania, the institute said. He was 37. Mr. Adams was going to San Franci
 David Angell, a creator and executive producer of the NBC series ''Frasier,'' died on Tuesday on American Airlines Flight 11 from Boston. He was 54 and lived in Pasadena, Calif. Mr. Angell was returning with his wife, Lynn, 52, to California from their summer home in Chatham, Mass.,
 The seventh Earl of Carnarvon, the racing manager for Queen Elizabeth II for more than 30 years, died Tuesday at his family seat, Highclere Castle, in Newbury, Berkshire, England. He was 77. He died after a heart attack, the British press reported. An aristocrat with a fortu
 Robert Pagent, a dancer and choreographer who appeared in the original productions of ''Oklahoma!'' and ''Carousel'' and a pioneering director of dance for television during its early years, died on Sept. 4 in Greenwich, Conn., where he lived. He was 87. Mr. Pagent's career took him
 Irving S. Shapiro, a former chairman of the DuPont Company who evolved into corporate America's lead liaison to Washington in the 1970's, died on Thursday. He was 85. ''He was in many respects the first DuPont 'public' chief executive,'' said Chad Holliday, the current chairman of D
 Robert Speisman, executive vice president at Lazare Kaplan International in New York, a worldwide diamond manufacturer, was among the passengers killed when the hijacked American Airlines Flight 77 crashed into the Pentagon on Tuesday, his family said. He was 48. Mr. Speisman was tr
 Wilson Flagg, a retired rear admiral who was one of three admirals censured by the Navy over the 1991 Tailhook sexual-assault scandal, died in the American Airlines plane that crashed into the Pentagon, his family said yesterday. His wife, Darleen, also died in the crash. Both were 62.     
 Raymond Edward Johnson, a versatile radio and stage actor who provided a signature moment for radio as the ghoulish host with the creaking door in the long-running ''Inner Sanctum,'' died on Aug. 15 in Wallingford, Conn. He was 90. Mr. Johnson was a familiar presence in the radio se
 George I. Reynolds, a pioneer in cable television, died on Aug. 22 at his home in Cooperstown, N.Y. He was 85 and also had a home in West Palm Beach, Fla. Mr. Reynolds became interested in the potential of cable television in the 1960's, when cable was a technology that was largely 
 William I. Spencer, who as the No. 2 executive at the holding company for what became Citibank helped propel the bank to the top of the industry, died on Sept. 9 at his home in Larchmont, N.Y. He was 84. He worked under Walter B. Wriston, the chairman, who cited Mr. Spencer's agilit
 Fred De Cordova, who skipped lightly and most often anonymously among the pinnacles of American show business, most prominently as producer of ''The Tonight Show'' for Johnny Carson, died on Saturday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 90 and lived in Beverly Hills. Mr. Cordova mov
 Glenn C. Fowler, who was the real estate editor of The New York Times from 1956 to 1972 and worked at the paper for 36 years, died on Sept. 10 at the New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 77 and lived in the Gramercy Park area of Manhattan. The cause was prostate c
 Samuel Z. Arkoff, the low-budget movie mogul who enticed two generations of teenagers into drive-in theaters with movies like ''I Was a Teenage Werewolf'' and ''Wild in the Streets,'' died on Sunday in Burbank, Calif. He was 83. Through 463 movies, Mr. Arkoff's philosophy of moviema
 Tank Younger, a star fullback and linebacker for the Los Angeles Rams in the decade after World War II and the first athlete from a historically black college to play in the National Football League, died Saturday in Inglewood, Calif. He was 73. He had been in failing health for som
 Edward Asbury O'Neal, an American banking executive who helped build one of Australia's best-known building societies into the fifth-largest bank in the country, died at home in Sydney on Sunday. He was 57. The cause was suspected to be a heart attack, according to a spokeswoman for
 George Ireland, who coached Loyola University of Chicago to the 1963 national basketball championship while taking a highly visible stride toward integration in college athletics, died last Friday in Addison, Ill. He was 88. Ireland coached for 24 seasons at Loyola, taking the Rambl
 Gunnar Dybwad, an early and prominent advocate for people with mental retardation and other developmental disabilities, died last Thursday in Needham, Mass. He was 92 and lived in Wellesley, Mass. Dr. Dybwad, an authority on retardation, autism, cerebral palsy and other disabilities
 Stuart Sherman, an innovative performance artist and playwright who also worked creatively in film, video, sculpture and other visual arts, died on Friday in San Francisco. He was 55. Mr. Sherman lived in Manhattan but had been peripatetic in recent years. The cause was AIDS, said h
 Archibald R. Murray, a lawyer born in Barbados who was the first black president of the New York State Bar Association and the second black chairman of the executive committee of the City Bar Association as well as the longtime head of the Legal Aid Society, died on Sunday in New York. He w
 David S. Berry, a financial analyst who helped explain the complexities of banking and finance to the public,  died on Sept. 11 at the World Trade Center. He was 43 years old and lived in Brooklyn. Mr. Berry was executive vice president and director for research at Keefe, Bruyette &
 David L. Yunich, who began his professional life as a minor-league catcher before rising to become vice chairman of R. H. Macy & Company and later chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority during some of the subway's darkest days, died on Wednesday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y.
 Lewis Rudin, who headed one of New York's oldest real estate dynasties, was one of the city's biggest boosters and became a behind-the-scenes power during the fiscal crises in the 1970's and early 1990's, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 74. He died of complications o
 Douglas Newton, curator emeritus of the department of the arts of Africa, Oceania and the Americas at the Metropolitan Museum of Art and an innovator in designing museum displays of non-Western art, died on Wednesday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 80. Born Bryan Lesl
 Francis E. Donnelly, a psychotherapist and co-founder of the Studio Museum in Harlem, died at his home in Manhattan on Sept. 13. He was 74. He died in his sleep of natural causes, said his partner, Michael Kahn. Mr. Donnelly was born in Jersey City and was educated at Columb
 Lt. Gen. Timothy L. Maude, the Army's deputy chief of staff for personnel, died on Sept. 11 in the attack on the Pentagon, the Department of Defense confirmed yesterday. He was 53 and lived in Fort Meyer, Va. General Maude was appointed to the position and promoted to his current ra
 Gen. Marcos Pérez Jiménez, who as the last military dictator of Venezuela led a government notorious for brutality and corruption, died early today in Madrid. He was 87. In the decade when he dominated Venezuela, one of the world's largest producers of oil, General Pérez Jiménez
 Neil D. Levin, the executive director of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, the landlord for the World Trade Center complex as well as the operator of the New York City area's three major airports, port facilities, bridges and tunnels, died on Sept. 11 in the collapse of the twi
 Sandy Saddler, a former featherweight boxing champion who was best remembered for his four bouts with Willie Pep, died Tuesday at the Schervier Nursing Care Center in the Bronx. He was 75. He had Alzheimer's disease, his son, Sandy Jr., said. Although Saddler had 162 fights,
 John P. O'Neill, who left the F.B.I. last month to become chief of security for the World Trade Center, died in the collapse of the center on Sept. 11. He was 49. Mr. O'Neill spent the last several years heading major investigations of the Saudi exile Osama bin Laden, a prime suspec
 Isaac Stern, a violinist who in his prime was considered one of the great instrumentalists of the 20th century, and who also became an important power broker in the classical music world after he led a successful campaign to save Carnegie Hall from destruction, died at a Manhattan hospital 
 Walter Jinotti, a biomedical engineer who developed a quick method of determining how much pollen is in the air and whose pollen counts were a staple of television and radio news in the New York region, died on Sept. 9 at Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital in New Brunswick, N.J. He was
 Theodore Silverstein, a scholar of medieval literature at the University of Chicago whose subjects included Old English poetry and Late Latin visionary apocalypses and whose exploits as an intelligence officer in World War II were only recently revealed, died on Sept. 1. He was 96 a
 Isaac Stern, a violinist who in his prime was considered one of the great instrumentalists of the 20th century, and who also became an important power broker in the classical music world after he led a successful campaign to save Carnegie Hall from destruction, died at a Manhattan hospital 
 Solomon Sagall, an early proponent of pay television, died on Sept. 6 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in New York. He was 101. In the 1930's Mr. Sagall was among the first to seize on the commercial potential of technology for transmitting video and sound over the airwaves to remot
 David Alger, whose approach to investing in stocks propelled the mutual funds he managed to the top of the 90's bull market, died in the collapse of the World Trade Center, his wife, Josephine, said yesterday. He was 57 and had homes in Manhattan and Tuxedo Park, N.Y. According to G
 Dr. Nguyen Ton Hoan, a Vietnamese who as a leader of the Dai Viet, or Greater Vietnam Party, opposed Communist rule in the north and French rule in the south and who in 1964 was briefly deputy premier in Maj. Gen. Nguyen Khanh's government, died on Sept. 19 at Mountainview, Calif., where he
 Jens Nygaard, the enterprising conductor who founded the Jupiter Symphony and built a devoted audience for it, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 69. Mei Ying, his companion, said the cause was complications from multiple myelomas, which are tumors of the bone marrow.  
 Maxwell H. Tretter, executive director of the New York City Housing Authority in the mid-1940's, died on Sunday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 95. Mr. Tretter, a lawyer, was counsel in charge of the authority's legal division from 1938 to 1941, assistant to its chairman from 
 Adm. Daniel Joseph Murphy, a retired Navy career officer who held positions in the Carter and Reagan administrations, died on Friday in a hospital in Rockville, Md. He was 79 and lived in Potomac, Md. The cause was a stomach aneurysm, his family said. In 1976 and 1977, when 
 David Santiago, a community advocate who fought for black and Hispanic access to public housing projects in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, in the 1980's and who more recently coordinated protests against the United States military presence in Vieques, died on Sept. 17 in Fairfax, Va., near his hom
 Fred V. Morrone, the superintendent of police and director of public safety for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, died in the Sept. 11 collapse of the World Trade Center towers, where the agency had its headquarters, his family said. He was 63 and lived in Lakewood, N.J.       
 Charles Frederick Cannell, an expert on scientific surveys whose studies widely influenced how survey interviews are conducted, died on Sept. 18 in an automobile accident in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 88 and lived in Ann Arbor. Dr. Cannell (pronounced CAN-ell) retired in 1984 as a prof
 Stanley S. Herr, a lawyer whose career of crusades for the mentally  disabled altered the legal landscape from schools to death rows, died on Monday at his home in Baltimore. He was 56. His wife, Raquel Schuster-Herr, said the cause was adrenal carcinoma, a very rare cancer.        
 A. Joseph Debe, who had worked for more than two decades to create a stock derivative that became popular in the late 1980's, died at his home in Garden City, N.Y., on Sunday. He was 73. The cause was lung cancer, his daughter Gina O'Sullivan said. Born in Italy on Nov. 16, 
 Clark T. Rogerson, whose fascination with the microscopic world of fungi brought tens of thousands of specimens to the New York Botanical Garden in the Bronx, died on Sept. 7 in Ogden, Utah, where he moved after he retired. He was 82. Dr. Rogerson, an international authority on fung
 Evan A. Lottman, a film editor whose work was nominated for an Academy Award, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 70. The cause was esophageal cancer, said his wife, Eileen. Born in the Bronx, Mr. Lottman began his career in the 1960's, editing television docume
 Ezra Ehrenkrantz, a versatile architect, died on Sept. 22 at his home in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y. He was 69. He had cancer, his firm said in announcing his death. When he died, he was a partner in Ehrenkrantz Eckstut & Kuhn Architects, at 23 East Fourth Street in Manhattan. Ill hea
