 Benjamin DeMott, a prominent writer, scholar and cultural critic whose work explored the mythology that underpins contemporary American life, especially collective ideas about race, class and sex, died on Thursday at his home in Worthington, Mass. He was 81 and also had a home in Anna Maria
 Leo H. Sternbach, a research chemist who was foremost among the team of scientists who developed Valium, the tranquilizer that has been prescribed to millions of the sleepless and anxiety-ridden since the 1960's, died on Wednesday at his home in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 97. His long
 August Wilson, who chronicled the African-American experience in the 20th century in a series of plays that will stand as a landmark in the history of black culture, of American literature and of Broadway theater, died yesterday at a hospital in Seattle. He was 60 and lived in Seattle.     
 Nipsey Russell, the comedian whose one-liners and impromptu rhymes made him one of television's popular talk-show guests and game-show panelists during the 1970's, died on Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 80 and made his home in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, sai
 Patrick Caulfield, a British painter of spare, bright still lifes and interiors whose canny blending of realist styles was most often associated with Pop Art, died on Thursday in London. He was 69. His death was confirmed by the Waddington Galleries, which had represented the artist
 Sam Goldaper, a retired reporter for The New York Times who covered sports for New York newspapers for nearly half a century, died Saturday at North Shore University Hospital at Plainview on Long Island. Mr. Goldaper, whose home was in Bayside, Queens, was 83. The cause was complica
 Jack Lesberg, a steadfast and versatile bassist who worked with many legends of jazz in the 1940's and 50's and also had a career as a symphonic player, died on Sept. 17 at the Lillian Booth Actors' Home in Englewood, N.J. He was 85. The cause was complications of Alzheimer's diseas
 David Nillo, a founding member of American Ballet Theater and a dancer in many musical theater productions, died Sept. 28 in Los Angeles. He was 89 and lived in Hollywood. His death was announced by Jim Baughman, a friend. Mr. Nillo, who was born in Goldsboro, N.C., was a ve
 Harold Leventhal, an internationally renowned folk music promoter who in 1963 presented an unkempt 21-year-old named Bob Dylan in his first major concert-hall appearance, died on Tuesday at New York University Medical Center. He was 86 and lived in Manhattan. The death was confirmed
 Richard B. Dunn, the former director of one of the nation's major solar observatories and a pioneer in the development of optical solar telescopes, died Sept. 28 in Las Cruces, N.M. He was 77. The cause was a heart attack, according to the National Solar Observatory in Sunspot, N.M.
 William J. Ruane, an investment manager whose extensive philanthropy included revitalizing a block in Harlem with new housing, a health clinic and scholarships for children, died on Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 79. The cause was complication
 John E. Struggles, a founder and longtime partner of Heidrick & Struggles, one of the first executive search firms in the world and currently one of the largest, died on Tuesday at his home in Winnetka, Ill. He was 91. The firm, which is based in Chicago, announced the death.       
 John van Hengel, who set up the nation's first food bank, in Phoenix, to distribute unmarketable food to the hungry and then a national organization, Second Harvest, to spread the concept, died Wednesday at a hospice in Phoenix. He was 83. Cynde Cerf, spokeswoman for St. Mary's Food
 Jerry Juhl, whose Emmy Award-winning writing gave life to Jim Henson's whimsically irreverent Muppets on television and film, died on Sept. 27 at a hospital in San Francisco. He was 67 and made his home in Caspar, Calif. The cause of death was complications from pancreatic cancer, d
 Leopold B. Felsen, a leading expert on the waves of the electromagnetic spectrum who expanded his work to include waves in water and other mediums, died on Sept. 24 in Boston. He was 81. The cause was complications of surgery, his son, Michael, said. An author of more than 3
 Stefan Presser, a lawyer who for 21 years was legal director of the Pennsylvania chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union, died Oct. 7 at a cancer center in Philadelphia. He was 52. The cause was complications from brain cancer, said his brother, Stanley. Mr. Presser, w
 Louis Nye, a ubiquitous comedian who became a fixture on early television for playing an unctuous advertising executive in a Steve Allen sendup of Madison Avenue, died on Sunday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 92. The cause was lung cancer, said his son, Peter. Mr. Nye ap
 Wayne C. Booth, one of the pre-eminent literary critics of the second half of the 20th century, whose lifelong study of the art of rhetoric illuminated the means by which authors seduce, cajole and more than occasionally lie to their readers in the service of narrative, died yesterday morni
 Richard Stone Reeves, a prominent portrait painter whose subjects were all extremely beautiful if a trifle on the horsey side, died on Friday in Greenport, N.Y. Mr. Reeves, widely considered one of the premier equestrian artists in the world, was 85 and made his home in Greenport. M
 William Henry McKeon, a former chairman of the New York State Democratic Party who mobilized New Yorkers for John and Robert Kennedy in the early 1960's, died on Friday in Auburn, N.Y. A native and lifelong resident of Auburn, he was 85. His death was announced by his family.       
 Henry Y. Hwang, who founded the first Asian-American-owned federally chartered bank in the continental United States, died Saturday at his home in San Marino, Calif. He was 77. The cause was colon cancer, his son, the playwright David Henry Hwang, said. Mr. Hwang (pronounced
 Sanford M. Katz, a prominent civil rights lawyer who was part of the defense team that won a full acquittal in the celebrated Panther 21 conspiracy trial in 1971, died on Oct. 6 at his home in Manhattan. He was 75. The cause was heart failure after a long illness, his companion, Jud
 Tobin Armstrong, the managing partner of the 50,000-acre Armstrong Ranch and an influential figure among Texas Republicans and cattlemen, died Friday in Houston. He was 82. His death was announced by the ranch management in Kingsville, near Corpus Christi. Mr. Armstrong grew
 David Klasfeld, a New York City official in four mayoral administrations and former deputy schools chancellor, died on Wednesday at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 58. The apparent cause was a heart attack, his family said. A graduate of City College and
 Donald R.F. Harleman, a civil engineer who pioneered the study of the flow of contaminants through bodies of water and advised agencies that cleaned up Boston Harbor, Chesapeake Bay and bodies of water in several developing countries, died on Sept. 28 on Nantucket, in Massachusetts. He was 
 Jerome Roth, an oboist in the New York Philharmonic for 31 years and a member of the pioneering New York Woodwind Quintet in the 1950's, died on Wednesday in Ridgefield, Conn. He was 87. His son Robert Roth said he died at a nursing home and had been suffering from Alzheimer's disea
 Arthur Seldon, a libertarian economist whose books, pamphlets and articles supplied much of the intellectual artillery that inspired Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's free-market revolution, died Tuesday at his home in Godden Green in Kent County, England. He was 89. His death was 
 Edward Bennett Marks, whose career was spent aiding refugees as an executive of American and international agencies, both official and volunteer, died Monday at his home in Mill Valley, Calif. He was 92 and formerly lived in Manhattan; Leesburg, Va.; and Cambridge, Mass. His death w
 Robert Montgomery Scott, a longtime president of the Philadelphia Museum of Art who was for decades a prominent figure in the city's civic and cultural landscape, died on Thursday in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 76 and lived in Villanova, Pa. The cause was liver failure, his daughter Janny
 Sir Edwin A.G. Manton, a longtime executive of the insurance conglomerate American International Group who was knighted by Queen Elizabeth II of England for charitable contributions to the Tate Gallery in London, died on Oct. 1 at New York Weill Cornell Hospital. He was 96 and lived in Manh
 LeRoy Whitfield, a journalist who used a magazine column to chronicle the everyday struggles of people with H.I.V., died last Sunday at North General Hospital in Harlem. He was 36. The cause was AIDS-related complications, said his brother, Crofton Whitfield. Mr. Whitfield h
 Alvin M. Josephy Jr., a popular historian of the American West whose books chronicled the struggles of American Indians from the frontier era to the present day, died on Sunday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 90. Mr. Josephy's daughter Diane Josephy Peavey confirmed the death
 Ba Jin, one of China's most acclaimed writers and the author of several influential prerevolutionary novels about the brutality of Chinese feudal family life, died on Monday after a long hospitalization. He was 100. The cause was cancer, Xinhua, the official Chinese news agency, sai
 Edmund N. Bacon, a leading postwar urban planner who remade much of Philadelphia, died on Friday at his home there. He was 95. His death was confirmed by his daughter Elinor Bacon. As the executive director of the Philadelphia City Planning Commission from 1949 to 1970, Mr. 
 Aleksandr N. Yakovlev, a historian, propagandist and diplomat and an architect of Mikhail S. Gorbachev's political reforms in the Soviet Union during the 1980's, died Tuesday at his home in Moscow. He was 81 and died after being hospitalized earlier in the day. Once a committed Comm
 Arthur W. Wang, co-founder of the intrepid publishing house of Hill & Wang, which took a chance on the early work of Elie Wiesel and Roland Barthes and was known for its Dramabooks series and books on American history, died on Friday in Wellesley, Mass. He was 87. The cause was comp
 Leo Bogart, a sociologist, author and marketing specialist who was known for studying the role of the mass media in culture, died Saturday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 84. The cause of death was babesiosis, a parasitic disease that is transmitted by ticks, said his w
 Edward R. Telling, who as chairman and chief executive of Sears, Roebuck & Company engineered its expansion into financial services in the 1980's, died Wednesday in North Palm Beach, Fla. He was 86. The cause was cancer, said Ernie Arms, a retired Sears spokesman who made the announ
 Sidney Geist, a sculptor, teacher and art writer who became a leading authority on the Romanian sculptor Constantin Brancusi, died Tuesday at the Jewish Home and Hospital in Manhattan. He was 91. The cause was complications of a stroke, said his son, Daniel Geist. A prolific
 Barrington Moore Jr., a Harvard sociologist whose studies of the contemporary human condition led him to dissect the totalitarian society, particularly as it evolved in the Soviet Union, died last Sunday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 92. His death was announced by the unive
 Jean-Michel Folon, the Belgian-born illustrator, poster designer and sculptor, whose surreal watercolors of lost Everymen and soaring birdmen helped to define the conceptual approach to editorial illustration, died on Thursday in Monaco. He was 71. The cause was leukemia, said his a
 Penn Kemble, who marshaled his skills as a political organizer, theorist and writer to champion a sterner approach by the American government to undemocratic regimes, died Oct. 16 at his home in Washington. He was 64. The cause was brain cancer, said his friend Joshua Muravchik, a r
 David Eliot McGiffert, a Washington lawyer and former Pentagon official who dealt with domestic security during the antiwar and racial disorders of the late 1960's, died on Oct. 12 at his home in Washington. He was 79. The cause was a heart ailment, his family said. Mr. McGi
 Michael Ward, an English surgeon and mountaineer who in 1953 was the expedition doctor on the historic ascent of Mount Everest -- and whose discoveries in a dusty archive a few years earlier helped make achieving the summit possible -- died on Oct. 7 at his home near Petworth in West Sussex
 Tony Adams, a film and stage producer best known for his enduring collaboration with the director Blake Edwards on ''Victor/Victoria'' and the many returns of the ''Pink Panther,'' died on Saturday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 52 and lived on the Upper West Side. The
 Marshall Clagett, a scholar of science in ancient Egypt and Greece and the way it was received in medieval Europe, died on Oct. 21 at a hospital in Princeton, N.J. He was 89 and lived in Princeton. His death was announced by the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, where he wa
 Robert H. Johnston, an archaeologist who helped develop a way to read ancient texts blackened or faded by time, including the Dead Sea Scrolls, died last Wednesday at his home in Brighton, N.Y. He was 77. He spent more than a month in the hospital recently after several minor falls 
 Wellington Mara, the patriarch of the National Football League, who served as a ball boy for the leather-helmeted 1925 Giants and later turned the team -- founded by his father -- into one of the marquee names in professional sports, died yesterday at his home in Rye, N.Y. He was 89.       
 Rong Yiren, a wealthy entrepreneur and former vice president of China who in the 1970's was asked by Deng Xiaoping to help initiate some of the nation's earliest economic reforms, died Wednesday in Beijing. He was 89. His death was reported by the New China News Agency. Mr. 
 Alastair G. W. Cameron, a Harvard astrophysicist who helped develop a revolutionary theory to explain how the Moon was formed, died Oct. 3 at his home in Tucson. He was 80. The cause was heart failure, his family said. Dr. Cameron's famous work, known as the giant impact the
 Michael Gill, a British television producer and director best known in this country for innovative ''authored documentary'' series like ''Civilisation'' (1969), featuring Lord Kenneth Clark, and ''America'' (1972), with Alistair Cooke, died on Oct. 20 at a London hospital. A London resident
 Richard E. Smalley, the Rice University chemistry professor who shared a Nobel Prize for discovering a new spherical form of carbon and championed the potential of nanotechnology to create a more sustainable economy, died Friday at 62 at the M. D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston. 
 Dr. Frederic Quitkin, a psychiatrist whose research helped establish that certain kinds of depression could best be treated with medications and that schizophrenia was related to neurological impairments rather than problems of childhood, died on Oct. 9 in New York. He was 68. The c
 Phil Hays, an illustrator and teacher, whose lush watercolor portraits of legendary blues artists like Bessie Smith and Billie Holiday for LP covers defined a distinctive graphic style of album art in the 1970's, died on Monday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 74. Mr. Hays, who li
 Al Lopez, one of baseball's most prominent managers of the 1950's and the oldest member of the Baseball Hall of Fame, died yesterday in Tampa, Fla. He was 97 and had briefly returned to the spotlight this month when the Chicago White Sox franchise he managed to a pennant in 1959 finally ret
 John Elliott Jr., who for 17 years led one of the world's largest advertising agencies, Ogilvy & Mather, died on Saturday at a hospital in Mount Kisco, N.Y. He was 84 and lived in Cross River, N.Y. The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, said his wife, Eleanor Thomas Elliott. M
 Marvin Chodorow, an applied physicist and administrator at Stanford who helped refine the use of microwave tubes in improving radar, telecommunications, cancer treatments and other applications, died Oct. 17 at his home in Stanford, Calif. He was 92. Dr. Chodorow's family confirmed 
