 Glenn Burke, a former outfielder for the Los Angeles Dodgers and the Oakland  Athletics who was the first major league baseball player to publicly acknowledge his homosexuality, died Tuesday at Fairmont Hospital in San Leandro, Calif. He was 42. The cause was complications from AIDS
 H. Don Reynolds, whose career in commercial aviation spanned the days of propeller planes to those of supersonic airliners, died on Monday at his home in Phoenix. He was 83. The cause was cancer, a spokesman for the family said. A specialist in aviation and transportation la
 Herman Meyers, an organizer and former vice president of the Taxi Drivers and Allied Workers Union in New York City, died on Sunday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 84 and lived in Manhattan. A driver of a medallion cab, Mr. Meyers became a member of the Taxi Drivers Organizing Com
 Dr. Joseph B. Cramer, the founding director of the division of child psychiatry at the Albert Einstein School of Medicine in the Bronx, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. Dr. Cramer was 80. A psychiatrist and psychoanalyst, Dr. Cramer spent much of his career forging links bet
 Phil L. Burleson, the Dallas lawyer whose legal skills allowed Jack Ruby to carry a presumption of innocence to the grave, died on Monday at Medical City Hospital in Dallas. He was 61. His family said he died of a heart attack. Millions of Americans watched on television on 
 Richard Lewis Robbins, an environmentalist who also was an expert on law firm technology, died on Sunday at his home in Chicago. He was 56. His family said only that he died after a brief illness. As executive director of the Lake Michigan Federation, a private, nonprofit  e
 Dr. Richard S. Silver, a Manhattan dentist whose expertise on the rules of golf earned him national recognition on subjects like water hazards and unplayable lies, died last Saturday at the Central Island Health Care Center in  Plainview, L.I. He was 90 years old. While maintaining 
 Robert J. Billings, the evangelistic Christian educator who helped rouse the  religious right into a potent political force as a founder of the Moral Majority, died on Sunday at the Lakeland Regional Medical Center in Florida. He  was 68 and had lived in Haines City, Fla., since 1992.      
 Dr. William Goldfarb, a psychiatrist and founding director of the Henry Ittleson Center for Child Research in Riverdale, died on Tuesday at a Salt Lake  City nursing home to which he had moved in April. He was 80 and had lived in Manhattan. The cause was Parkinson's disease, his fam
 Dallas S. Townsend Jr., who wrote and anchored the morning CBS radio news roundup for 25 years, died yesterday at Montclair Community Hospital in New Jersey. A former resident of Montclair, he was 76 and lived in Sarasota, Fla., after retiring in 1985. The cause was complications fr
 Dro E. Proudian, who brought an aptitude for elegance and a taste for caviar  to his job as director of American operations for Petrossian, the French specialty foods company, died on Wednesday at Cabrini Hospital. He was 38 and lived in Manhattan.. His companion, James Walden, said
 Glenn Burke, a former outfielder for the Los Angeles Dodgers and the Oakland  Athletics who was the first major league baseball player to publicly acknowledge his homosexuality, died Tuesday at Fairmont Hospital in San Leandro, Calif. He was 42. The cause was complications from AIDS
 Livingston Leroy Wingate, a Harlem civic leader, a former executive director  of the New York Urban League and a retired justice of State Supreme Court in Manhattan, died on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Hospital. Justice Wingate, a resident  of Harlem since boyhood, was 79. He suffered a 
 Max Ratner, a businessman, philanthropist and the founder of the America-Israel Chamber of Commerce, died on Wednesday at his home in Cleveland.  He was 87. Mr. Ratner, who was born in Bialystok, Poland, emigrated to the United States in 1920 and received a law degree from Cleveland
 Richard Vogt, the conductor and director of the Greenwich Choral Society, died on Saturday at his home in Old Greenwich, Conn. He was 65. The cause was a heart attack, said his brother, Howard S. Vogt of Bloomfield, N.J. Mr. Vogt had led the Greenwich Choral Society since 19
 Stanley Elkin, a stylistic virtuoso whose novels, short stories and novellas  were at once lyrical, bleak and fantastic, died on Wednesday at Jewish Hospital  in St. Louis. He was 65 and lived in University City, Mo. The cause was heart failure, said his daughter, Molly. Mr.
 Steven R. Fenster, a longtime investment banker and a visiting professor at the Harvard Business School, died yesterday at the Dana Farber Cancer Institute  in Boston. He was 52 and had lived in Cambridge, Mass., since 1991. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his wife, Kerin, said.   
 Timothy J. Mara, a grandson of the football Giants' founder and a former co-owner whose outspoken criticism of the Giants led to a long family feud, died yesterday at the Jupiter Medical Center in Florida. He was 59. The cause of death was Hodgkins disease, a team spokesman said.   
 Arthur M. Young, who built a helicopter that was the first to be certified for commercial use and the first in which the cockpit was enclosed in a plexiglass bubble, died on Tuesday at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 89. The cause was cancer, said Andrea Loomis, a friend of the 
 David S. Breslow, an industrial chemist whose research advanced the development of plastics, died on May 26 at Christiana Hospital in Newark, Del. He was 78 and lived in Wilmington, Del. Dr. Breslow began experimenting with polymers, the long-chain molecules that  are the building b
 James J. Shapiro, who helped revolutionize the home sewing industry as a founder and president of the Simplicity Pattern Company, died yesterday at his home at the Carlyle Hotel in Manhattan. He was 85. The cause of death was cancer, said his younger brother, Robert M. Shapiro.     
 Joseph Del Ponte, a public relations executive who was an advocate for people with AIDS, died on Wednesday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 39 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was AIDS-related, said a friend, Paul Donaher. Mr. Del Ponte was most recently 
 Keith R. Garrity, chairman and chief executive of Fansteel Inc., a specialty  metals producer in North Chicago, died on Thursday at Rush-Presbyterian-St. Luke's Medical Center in Chicago. He was 63 and lived in Libertyville, Ill. The cause was cancer, said a spokesman for the compan
 Michael Ugo Stille, a New York correspondent for the Italian newspaper Corriere della Sera for 40 years who moved to Milan to become its chief editor in 1987, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 75 years old. He died of heart failure, his family said. Mr. Stille, who headed 
 Robert Stokstad, a biochemical nutritionist who won renown for his research on folic acid and his work isolating vitamin K, died on Tuesday at Kaiser Permanente Hospital in Walnut Creek, Calif. He was 82 and lived in Lafayette, Calif. The cause was pneumonia, his son Robert said.   
 Thomas Fauss Gould, a scholar of Greek literature and philosophy who was a professor emeritus of classics at Yale University, died on May 13 at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford, Conn. He was 67 and had lived for many years in New Haven. In announcing the death last week, the univ
 David S. Breslow, an industrial chemist whose research advanced the development of plastics, died on May 26 at Christiana Hospital in Newark, Del. He was 78 and lived in Wilmington, Del. Dr. Breslow began experimenting with polymers, the long-chain molecules that  are the building b
 Harry N. Rosenfield, who helped create the school lunch program in 1946 and then supervised the resettlement of European refugees in the United States, died on Friday at his home in Washington. He was 83. In 1946, as the chief assistant to the Administrator of the Federal Security  
 Michael Ugo Stille, a New York correspondent for the Italian newspaper Corriere della Sera for 40 years who moved to Milan to become its chief editor in 1987, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 75 years old. He died of heart failure, his family said. Mr. Stille, who headed 
 Sherman Paul, a literary scholar who wrote studies of Emerson, Thoreau, Edmund Wilson and other American writers, died on May 28 at a hospital in Bemidji, Minn. He was 74 and lived on Wolf Lake, near Bemidji. The cause was complications from leukemia, said his wife, Jim. Mr.
 William Mozart McVey, a sculptor whose nine-foot bronze statue of Sir Winston Churchill stands outside the British Embassy in Washington, died on Wednesday. He was 89. He also executed a set of bronze doors for the Federal Trade Commission building in Washington. His other work incl
 Charles J. Bensley, a businessman who served on the New York City Board of Education and on the board of the city's Health and Hospitals Corporation and was active in the United Jewish Appeal and other philanthropic organizations, died on Saturday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He
 Harry N. Rosenfield, who helped create the school lunch program in 1946 and then supervised the resettlement of European refugees in the United States, died on Friday at his home in Washington. He was 83. In 1946, as the chief assistant to the Administrator of the Federal Security A
 Jean Marin, who was the head of the French news agency Agence France-Presse for 21 years and who worked closely with Gen. Charles de Gaulle during World War II, died on Saturday at his home in Paris. He was 86. Mr. Marin, whose memoirs were published last year, was the news agency's
 Jean-Louis Morin, a former principal dancer with the Martha Graham Dance Company and a choreographer, died on May 24 at Montreal General Hospital in Montreal. He was 42 and lived in Montreal. The cause was AIDS, said Doneley Meris, a friend. Mr. Morin trained at the Groupe d
 Arthur K. Shapiro, a psychiatrist whose work at Mount Sinai Medical School advanced the knowledge and treatment of Tourette's Syndrome, died on Saturday at White Plains Hospital. He was 72 and lived in Scarsdale, N.Y. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. At his death,
 Charles Allen Blackwell, a Broadway dancer and stage manager, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 66. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Frances. After attending Oberlin College, Mr. Blackwell toured Europe, Africa and Israel with the Pearl Primus School of Afr
 Frank Waters, a prolific novelist and chronicler of the Southwest and its Pueblo country, died on Saturday at his home in Taos, N.M. He was 92. Many of his books are still in print, including his best-selling "Book of the Hopi" (1963), which developed something of a cult following a
 Warren Sonbert, an independent film maker, died on Wednesday at his home in San Francisco. He was 47. The cause was AIDS, said Ascension Serrano, his companion. Mr. Sonbert began making films in 1966 while still a student at New York University. He made 18 films in all, many
 John Presper Eckert, co-inventor of the mammoth Eniac computer in 1945, believed by many computer experts and historians to be the first electronic digital computer, died on Saturday in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 76 and lived in Gladwyn, Pa. The cause was complications from leukemia, a f
 Victor Potamkin, the supercharged car salesman who used a combination of deep discounting and extensive advertising to turn an ailing Manhattan Cadillac agency into the flagship of a $1 billion-a-year automotive empire, died on Monday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Miami. He was 83 and lived at
 Daniel Bershader, an internationally recognized aerophysicist whose calculations furthered the mechanics of supersonic flight and space exploration, died on May 30 at his home in Stanford, Calif. He was 72. The cause was complications from chronic peptic ulcers, according to a repor
 Eino Hjalmar Friberg, a blind Finnish-American writer known for his translation into English of Finland's national epic poem, died on May 27 at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 94. His death was reported by The Associated Press on Monday. Mr. Friberg was honored by the Fi
 Jacob S. Katz, a former Deputy Police Commissioner in New York City, died on Monday at a retirement home in Columbia, Md. He was 95 and had lived in Miami until a few months ago. Mr. Katz, who had an engineering degree, took part in developing the "911" emergency telephone system. H
 Dr. Lenox Dial Baker, a Duke University orthopedic surgeon who contributed to the treatment of children with cerebral palsy, died on Friday at the Hillcrest Convalescent Center in Durham, N.C. He was 92. He joined the Duke faculty in 1937 as an assistant in orthopedics and served as
 Ross F. Anderson, a retired San Francisco retail-chain executive, died on Sunday at his home in Menlo Park, Calif. He was 75 and also had a home in Rutherford, Calif. The cause was complications from Alzheimer's disease, his family said. Mr. Anderson retired in 1979 as a dir
 Savely Kramarov, a bumbling, cross-eyed Russian comic who unified a generation of disgruntled Soviet movie fans in laughter, died on Tuesday at the Pacific Medical Center in San Francisco, 13 years after immigrating to the United States. He was 60 and lived in Forest Knolls, in nearby Marin
 Wyman Pendleton, an actor in theater, films and television, died last Thursday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from a head injury suffered in a fall at his home, said a friend, Joseph Cali. Mr. Pendleton's
 Gen. Juan Carlos Ongania, a cavalryman who was Argentina's repressive President from 1966 to 1970, died yesterday at the Military Hospital in Buenos Aires. He was 81 and lived in a suburb of Buenos Aires. The cause was a heart attack, The Associated Press reported. He had suffered a
 Jeffrey Z. Rubin, an academic expert in and author on the art of negotiation, died on Saturday in a mountaineering accident in Baxter State Park in Maine. He was 54 and lived in Newton, Mass. J. William Breslin, a spokesman for the Program on Negotiation at Harvard Law School, said 
 Jerry Zipkin, a celebrated fixture on the international social scene for almost half a century, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 80. The cause was lung cancer, said Harold Daitch, his lawyer. Mr. Zipkin, an heir to a Manhattan real-estate fortune who until his
 Peter Kump, one of the most influential figures on the American food scene as founder of Peter Kump's New York Cooking School and the James Beard Foundation, died Wednesday at his weekend home in East Hampton, L.I. He was 57 and also had a home in Manhattan. The cause was liver canc
 Trevor N. Dupuy, a prolific military historian and battlefield theorist whose expertise extended over 5,000 years of warfare, from the conflicts of ancient Egypt to the Persian Gulf war of 1991, took his life on Monday, three weeks after learning that he was terminally ill. He was 79 and li
 Gen. Juan Carlos Ongania, a cavalryman who was Argentina's repressive President from 1966 to 1970, died on Thursday at the Military Hospital in Buenos Aires. He was 81 and lived in a suburb of Buenos Aires. The cause was a heart attack, The Associated Press reported. He had suffered
 Robert H. Ganz, an inventor and head of a New Jersey company whose specialized packaging machinery is sold worldwide, died on Tuesday at Hackensack Medical Center. He was 65 and lived in Saddle River, N.J. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Ganz was chief exe
 Thomas D. Cabot, a hardy industrialist who spent 40 years building a great family fortune and 30 years hiking, skiing, canoeing, yachting and giving away money, died on Thursday at his home in Weston, Mass., the Boston suburb where he lived for 75 years. He was 98. In a Boston Brahm
 Rene Firino Martell, who engineered the $850 million sale of his family's cognac company to Seagram in 1988, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Nice, France. He was 68 and a resident of Cognac, the small southwestern town that his family has dominnated for almost three centuries. Spok
 Zoilo Versalles, the slick-fielding, Cuban-born shortstop who led the Minnesota Twins to their first American League pennant in 1965 and became the first Latin American player to be named most valuable player, was found dead at his home in suburban Bloomington, Minn., on Friday. He was 55. 
 Lindsey Nelson, who brought his elegant Tennessee voice and psychedelic sports jackets to New York as one of the Mets' three original announcers, died Saturday night at Emory University Hospital in Atlanta. He was 76 years old. A staff person at the hospital said Mr. Nelson died of 
 Mooroogiah Dhanapathy Naidoo, a South African lawyer who was an active opponent of apartheid, died on June 1 in his birthplace, Durban, South Africa. He was 75. His death was reported on Saturday by the British newspaper The Guardian, which said he had emphysema. Over the ye
 Rene Firino Martell, who engineered the $850 million sale of his family's cognac company to Seagram in 1988, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Nice, France. He was 68 and a resident of Cognac, the small southwestern town that his family has dominnated for almost three centuries. Spok
 Zoilo Versalles, the slick-fielding, Cuban-born shortstop who led the Minnesota Twins to their first American League pennant in 1965 and became the first Latin American player to be named most valuable player, was found dead at his home in suburban Bloomington, Minn., on Friday. He was 55. 
 Abner Vernon McCall, who was president and later chancellor of Baylor University for 24 years, died on Sunday at his home in Waco, Tex. He was 80. The cause was a heart attack, said a spokeswoman for Baylor, the nation's largest Baptist university. Mr. McCall had celebrated his 80th
 Albert Fenn, a former photographer for Life magazine, died on June 4 in Tucson, Ariz. He was 82. Mr. Fenn worked for Life from 1941 to 1962, beginning as a contract photographer and joining the staff in 1946. He specialized in scientific and medical subjects, although he also covere
 Arturo Benedetti Michelangeli, an acclaimed pianist known for his reclusive behavior, died yesterday in Lugano, Switzerland. He was 75. He had been hospitalized several days ago, according to The Associated Press. Hailed by many critics and musicians as one of the supreme ke
 Arthur J. Kropp, the president of the 300,000-member civil liberties organization People for the American Way, died yesterday at his home in Washington. He was 37. The cause was AIDS, said Matthew Freeman, a spokesman for People for the American Way. Mr. Kropp, who joined th
 G. J. Tankersley, who was chairman and chief executive of the Consolidated Natural Gas Company from 1979 to 1987 and who led the company into energy exploration and production in the Gulf of Mexico, died on Sunday. He was 74. He died at his home in Stahlstown, Pa., from complication
 Herman Russell Branson, a physicist and former university president who helped to broaden the financing of black colleges in the 1970's and 1980's, died on Wednesday at Washington Hospital Center. He was 80 and lived in Silver Spring, Md. The cause was heart failure, said his son, H
 Walter Landor, founder of an industrial design firm that created logos for some of the world's largest and best-known corporations, died on Friday in Tiburon, Calif. He was 81 and lived in San Francisco and Saint Helena, Calif. He had been in bad health for several years, said a spo
 Adolph Lowe, an adviser to the Weimar Government in Germany in the 1920's and a professor of political economy at the New School for Social Research for nearly four decades, died in Wolfenbuttel, Germany, on June 3. He was 102. One of a remarkable generation of Jewish intellectuals 
 Irwin Schnurmacher, a philanthropist and real estate executive, died on Saturday at Beth Israel Medical Center. He was 83 and lived in Woodmere, L.I. Through the Irwin and Sylvia Schnurmacher Foundation, he helped many organizations, including the Anti-Defamation League; the United 
 John H. Finley Jr., the classicist who brought ancient Greece alive and taught a generation of Harvard men how to live, died on Sunday at a Exeter Health Care Center in Exeter, N.H. He was 91 and a resident of Tamworth, N.H. There were close to 300 years of Harvard before he came al
 Steve Silver, the creator and producer of "Beach Blanket Babylon," a San Francisco musical revue that has run to sold-out audiences for 21 years, died on Tuesday at his home in San Francisco. Mr. Silver was 51. The cause of death was AIDS, said Charles Zukow, a spokesman for Mr. Sil
 Dr. Aaron Karush, a psychiatrist and psychoanalyst at the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, died on Monday at New Rochelle Hospital. He was 83 and lived in New Rochelle. The cause was a heart attack, a university spokeswoman said. Dr. Karush was on the 
 Akiva Kohane, a Jewish international aid official, died on May 27 at Beth Israel Hospital in Boston. He was 84 and a resident of Boston. The cause was heart failure, the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee said. He had retired in 1990 from the organization, for which he was
 Francis S. Levien, a New York lawyer-industrialist who specialized in the creation of corporate conglomerates, died on Thursday at Mount Sinai Hospital. A resident of Palm Beach, Fla., he was 90 and had lived in Manhattan and Stamford, Conn. Mr. Levien (pronounced leh-vee-EN) struck
 Frederic Garfield Worden, a retired professor of psychiatry and former director of the Neurosciences Research Program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, died last Tuesday at his home in Jamestown, R.I. He was 77. The cause was cancer, said a spokesman for the Fagan Funera
 George H. Duncan, a radio executive who helped establish a new kind of rock-and-roll programming format in the late 1960's and 1970's, died on Saturday while playing in an alumni lacrosse match at Cornell University in Itacha, N.Y. He was 63 and had homes in Scarsdale, N.Y., and Montecito, 
 Julius Burger, a pianist, composer and conductor whose compositions were revived in a concert at Alice Tully Hall in 1991, died on Monday at his home in Queens. He was 98. Mr. Burger studied music at the Vienna Academy, then joined the Berlin Opera as assistant conductor. He was als
 Meyer H. Mencher, a former New York State assistant attorney general, died on Monday at Beth Israel Medical Center. He was 90 and a resident of Manhattan. Named to the Attorney General's education bureau in 1960, he was in charge of enforcing teacher and administrator licensing. He 
 Robert Louis Meyzen, co-founder of La Caravelle, the French restaurant that 35 years ago set the standards for haute cuisine, died on Tuesday at his home in Wilton, Conn. He was 68. The cause was cancer, said his son, Robert Olivier Meyzen. For almost 20 years La Caravelle, 
 Marcel Sony Labou Tansi, a novelist considered by many to be Central Africa's greatest writer, died yesterday in Foufoundou, a remote village in the Congo countryside where he had gone for treatment of AIDS. He was 48. The cause of death was complications from AIDS, including pneumo
 William A. Sodeman Sr., a cardiologist and medical educator, died on Saturday in a nursing home in Tampa, Fla. He was 88 and had lived in Tampa since his retirement about 20 years ago. Dr. Sodeman was a former president of Jefferson Medical College, now Thomas Jefferson University, 
 Fred Rosenstiel, who spent his life planting gardens to brighten the lives of his fellow New Yorkers, and to alleviate an abiding sadness in his heart, died on Tuesday at the Western Queens Community Hospital in Astoria. He was 83 and lived recently in Astoria. In a city where corps
 Dr. James Oscar Lee, an educator who became a leading figure in the National Council of Churches and the National Conference of Christians and Jews, died on Sunday at Shady Grove Hospital in Gaithersburg, Md. A longtime resident of Brooklyn, he was 85 and had lived in a Gaithersburg retirem
 Lincoln J. Ragsdale, who was trained as one of the pioneering black American fighter pilots of World War II and who later became a civil rights leader and entrepreneur in Phoenix and the Southeast, died on June 9 at his home in Paradise Valley, a suburb of Phoenix. He was 69. The ca
 Marcel Sony Labou Tansi, a novelist considered by many to be Central Africa's greatest writer, died on Wednesday in Foufoundou, a remote village in the Congo countryside where he had gone for treatment of AIDS. He was 48. The cause of death was complications from AIDS, including pne
 Frank E. Beube, a philanthropist and periodontist who conducted pioneering research into the bone and tissue that hold teeth in place, died on Wednesday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 90 and lived in New Rochelle, N.Y. A professor emeritus of dentistry at Columbia U
 John Vincent Atanasoff, a physicist whose pioneering computer research in the 1930's was overshadowed by the successes of wartime computers, died on Thursday in Frederick, Md., where he lived. He was 91. The cause was a stroke, said Steve Jones, a spokesman for Iowa State University
 Louis Berry, a Michigan businessman and philanthropist, died on Wednesday at his home in West Bloomfield, a Detroit suburb. He was 92. Mr. Berry was born in Liverpool, England, came to this country in 1922 and entered the hotel business in 1939 with the purchase of the Palmetto in D
 Moishe Sacks, who helped keep Orthodox Judaism alive in the South Bronx as rabbi of the Intervale Jewish Center, died on Monday at Weiler Hospital of Albert Einstein Medical School. A resident of the Bronx, he was 82. From the 1960's, until his health failed last December, Mr. Sacks
 Robert Powell, who defied all odds to beat illness as an infant, led an active life as a paraplegic and was vice president of the National Right to Life Committee, died on Wednesday at the University of Texas Medical Branch in Galveston. Mr. Powell, a lifelong resident of Galveston, was 45.
 Walter E. Sindlinger, professor emeritus of higher education at Teachers College of Columbia University and a leader in the postwar development and expansion of community colleges, died yesterday at Nyack (N.Y.) Hospital. He was 81 and lived in New City, N.Y. Although retire
 Dr. William Charney, a retired microbiologist who helped develop and market pharmaceutical products at the Schering-Plough Research Institute, died on Wednesday at a nursing home in Montclair, N.J. He was 77. The cause was complications from Parkinson's disease, his family said.    
 Ernest C. Havemann, a retired journalist and textbook writer, died Wednesday at a hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 83 years old. The cause was pneumonia, his son, Joel, said. A native of St. Louis, Mo., Mr. Havemann earned bachelor's and master's degrees in psychology from W
 Dr. Matthew Suffness, a medical research manager who helped develop the cancer drug taxol, died on Wednesday at Holy Cross Hospital in Silver Spring, Md. He was 52 and lived in Silver Spring. The cause was pneumonia, said a colleague, Tony Mead of the National Cancer Institute. Dr. 
 William W. Ambler, the former director of admissions at Haverford College in Haverford, Pa., died on Tuesday at his home in Kennett Square, Pa. He was 71. The cause was a heart attack, a press release from the college said.  Mr. Ambler had served on the admissions staff at the colle
 George M. Stafford, a Kansas Republican who was chairman of the Interstate Commerce Commission from 1970 to 1977, died on Friday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 80 and lived in Bethesda, Md. The cause was kidney failure, said his son, Bill. Mr. Stafford, a 
 Harry Tisch, who headed the Communist labor unions in East Germany and was a member of its ruling Politburo, died yesterday in Berlin. He was 68. Friends said the cause was cancer, according to The Associated Press. Mr. Tisch ran the unions, which had 10 million members, for
 Bernard R. Ostrow, the founder and former president of a large kosher-food processing business in Newark, died on Friday at his home in West Orange, N.J. He was 76 and also lived in Delray Beach, Fla. The cause was complications from congestive heart failure, his family said.       
 Charles Elmer Martin, an artist whose work was seen in galleries and museums, in national magazines and in books, died on Sunday at the Seaside nursing home in Portland, Me. He was 85 and lived in Queens until several years ago when he moved to Portland. For many years Mr. Martin, w
 Dr. Harry B. Loomer, a psychiatrist whose pioneering research into drug treatment for depression was recognized after court litigation, died on Thursday at Columbia Memorial Hospital in Hudson, N.Y. He was 86 and lived in Taghkanic, N.Y. As a senior psychiatrist at the Rockland Psyc
 Robert G. Bernreuter, a psychologist and university administrator who designed an early personality test and helped create one of the first laws in the nation to require psychological testing in public schools, died on Thursday at Centre Community Hospital in State College, Pa. He was 93 an
 E. Bronson Ingram, who built his family's troubled barge operation into one of the largest private companies in the country with diversified interests, died last Thursday at his home in Nashville. He was 63. The cause was cancer, a spokesman for the family said. Mr. Ingram a
 Meyer Michael Greenberg, known to the poor and homeless of New York City for a simple act of charity he performed for 30 years on its meanest street, died on Monday at Rivington House, a Manhattan nursing home. He was 67 and had lived much of his life in Greenwich Village. The cause
 Arnold I. Dumey, an expert in the deciphering of codes who served the Government throughout World War II and the cold war, died on Sunday at the Medical Center in Princeton, N.J. He was 88 and lived most recently at the Clearbrook Retirement Village in the nearby town of Cranbury. T
 E. M. Cioran, a Romanian-born writer known for his essays on philosophy and culture and his emphasis on despair, emptiness and death, died on Tuesday in the Broca Hospital in Paris. He was 84 and had lived in Paris since 1937. Mr. Cioran (pronounced TCHAW-rahn) has been widely read 
 Laurence McKinley Gould, a polar explorer who led American efforts in Antarctica for many years and was also an innovative college president, died on Tuesday at a home for the elderly in Tucson, Ariz. He was 98. He was second in command of Adm. Richard E. Byrd's first expedition to 
 Joe Fawbush, an art dealer whose SoHo gallery was known for showing the artworks of a high number of women, died on Wednesday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Greenwich Village. He was 38 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was AIDS, said Raoul Reyes, a friend. Mr. Fawbush was bor
 Tristan Jones, as much an adventurer and humanitarian as he was a respected British author and sailor, died Wednesday. He was 71. The cause of death was complications after a stroke, The Associated Press reported yesterday. He was living at the time in Phuket, a Thai island 
 Anatoly Tarasov, the fiery and inspirational coach who led the former Soviet Union to become a dominant world power in international hockey, died yesterday in Moscow. He was 76. A Russian news agency said he died after a long illness. In a letter to Mr. Tarasov's family, Rus
 Dr. Jonas Salk, who in the 1950's developed the first successful vaccine against poliomyelitis, the viral illness that had gripped a fearful nation with images of children doomed to death or paralysis, died yesterday at Green Hospital in the La Jolla section of San Diego. He was 80.        
 George J. Silberfein, a retired dress manufacturer and supporter of Jewish causes, died on Monday at Hollywood Medical Center in Florida. A former resident of Huntington, L.I., he was 86 and lived in Hollywood. He was active in what became known as the Airlift to Israel of 1947, whe
 Raghavan Narasimhan Iyer, a philosopher, author and professor emeritus of political science at the University of California at Santa Barbara, died on Tuesday at St. Francis Medical Center in Santa Barbara. He was 65 and lived in Santa Barbara. The cause was complications from pneumo
 Roger Grimsby, whose commanding delivery and acerbic wit as the anchor of "Eyewitness News" at WABC-TV in New York helped redefine local television news, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 66. The cause was lung cancer, said Bill Beutel, his former newscast p
 Yves Cardinal Congar, an influential Dominican theologian whose reformist views helped to inspire Pope John XXIII and the Second Vatican Council, died on Thursday in Paris. He was 91. Ordained a priest in 1930, Pere Congar, as he was widely known throughout his life, soon became a d
 Brett Averill, who was the editor of The New York Native, a gay newspaper, during the early years of the AIDS epidemic, died on Tuesday at his home in San Francisco. He was 37. The cause was AIDS, said his companion, Bill Weintraub. Mr. Averill began editing The Native in 19
 Carlo Pietrangeli, an archeologist and director of the Vatican museums who oversaw the restoration of Michelangelo's frescoes in the Sistine Chapel, died Friday in Rome. He was 82. Professor Pietrangeli had been ill for some time. In a career in which he published more than 
 George McKim Barley Jr., a real estate developer and leader of efforts to preserve the Everglades, died on Friday morning in a plane crash near his home in Orlando, Fla. He was 61. Mr. Barley, Florida's leading opponent of price supports for the sugar industry, was on his way to Jac
 James K. Batten, a former reporter who rose to become chairman of one of the country's largest newspaper companies, Knight-Ridder, died yesterday at Jackson Memorial Hospital in Miami. He was 59. He had been fighting a malignant brain tumor for which he underwent surgery last summer
 Joseph M. Sugar, a movie executive who developed new techniques of film distribution, died at his home in Palm Springs, Calif., last Saturday. He was 73. The cause of death was a heart attack, a business associate said. Mr. Sugar was born in New York City and attended New Yo
 Raphael Levy, a writer and publicity agent who played a major role in mobilizing American Jewish support for Israel in its early days, died on Friday at his home in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y. He was 86. The cause was prostate cancer, his family said. Mr. Levy wrote and produce
 Edward Wharton-Tigar, a British agent during World War II, died on June 14, the Times of London reported on Thursday. He was 82 and had a residence in London. Mr. Wharton-Tigar was also a mining executive and a prominent collector of what the British call cigarette cards, depicting 
 Eli Wilentz, whose Eighth Street Bookshop became a a literary nerve center of Greenwich Village in the 1950's and 60's, died yesterday at the Beth Israel Medical Center. He was 76, and lived at 17 West Eighth Street, above what is now a trendy shoe store and was once the touchstone of a gen
 James K. Batten, a former reporter who rose to become chairman of one of the country's largest newspaper companies, Knight-Ridder, died on Saturday at Jackson Memorial Hospital in Miami. He was 59. He had been fighting a malignant brain tumor for which he underwent surgery last summ
 Professor Thomas Belmonte, a Hofstra University anthropologist known for a book about the lives of the poor in Naples, died on Thursday at Roosevelt Hospital. He was 48 and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. The cause was complications from AIDS, said his companion, Dr. Ther
 Warren E. Burger, who retired in 1986 after 17 years as the 15th Chief Justice of the United States, died here today at age 87. The cause was congestive heart failure, a spokeswoman for the Supreme Court said. An energetic court administrator, Chief Justice Burger was in some respec
 Al Hansen, one of the first Happenings artists and a founder of the Fluxus art movement, was found dead last Tuesday in his apartment in Cologne, Germany. He was 67 and had lived in Cologne since 1987. The cause of death has not been determined, said his dealer in Cologne, Hari Hoff
 Arvid Jouppi, a longtime and much-quoted automobile industry analyst, died on Thursday at the Angela Hospice in Livonia, Mich., outside Detroit. He was 77 and lived in Canton Township, Mich. The cause of death was heart failure, officials at the hospice said. Mr. Jouppi's vi
 Jesse B. Sokoloff, a real estate developer and leader of Jewish philanthropic agencies on Long Island, died on Saturday in his home in Hewlett Neck, L.I. He was 77. The cause was cancer, his family said. He was a former president of the Jewish Community Services of Long Isla
 Richard J. Conners, who spent 50 years in political office in Albany, most recently in the New York State Assembly, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Cohoes, N.Y. He was 85 and a lifelong resident of Albany. The cause was pneumonia, his family said. Mr. Conners's life, pri
 Ernest T. S. Walton, an Irish physicist who performed a crucial atom-smashing experiment in 1932 that ushered in a new era of nuclear research, died on Sunday at Belfast City Hospital in Northern Ireland. He was 91. Dr. Walton and a colleague, John Douglas Cockcroft, shared the Nobe
 Gurdon Wallace Wattles Jr., a former expert in international law at the United Nations Secretariat, died on Sunday at his country house in Amenia, N.Y. He was 75 and kept a home on Manhattan's Upper East Side as well as his home in Dutchess County. He suffered a brief illness, his f
 Henry Alonzo Keller, an artist who created the top hat-on-the-bat emblem of the New York Yankees and designed thousands of program covers for football and baseball games, died on Monday in De Land, Fla. He was 87. Mr. Keller, who was known as Lon, created the Yankee emblem just afte
 James F. Greene Sr., a Deputy Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service in the 1970's, died on Sunday at the Vantage House Retirement Center in Columbia, Md. He was 80. The cause was complications from Parkinson's disease, his family said. Mr. Greene began h
 Marvin Camras, an electrical engineer and inventor widely seen as the father of magnetic tape recording, died on Friday in Evanston, Ill., He was 79. The cause was kidney failure, said Sara Fishman, a spokeswoman for the Illinois Institute of Technology, where Mr. Camras worked and 
 Dominic Tang Yiming, the Pope's Archbishop in exile for the city of Guangzhou, China, who personified the schism between the Vatican and the state-affiliated Patriotic Association of Catholics, died on Tuesday during a visit to Stamford, Conn. He was 87 and spent his exile in Hong Kong unti
 Efrem Kurtz, an American conductor of Russian birth who had been music director of the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo and orchestras in Stuttgart, Kansas City, Houston, Liverpool and Stuttgart, died on Tuesday at his home in London. He was 94 and had residences in London, Monte Carlo and New Y
 Jacques Berque, a leading French expert on Islam who worked assiduously to make the Arab world better understood by the West, died on Tuesday at his home in St.-Julien-en-Born in the Landes region of southwest France. He was 85. A tall elegant man renowned for his intellectual free 
 Jonathan S. Berg, a real estate broker and former vice president of the Corcoran Group who was active in AIDS education, died on Saturday at his summer home in Pound Ridge, N.Y. He was 34 and also lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from AIDS, said his companion, Steven 
 Alan R. Finberg, former vice president, secretary and general counsel of the Washington Post Company and a director of Human Rights Watch, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 67. The cause was cancer, a spokesman for the Post said. Mr. Finberg spent 20 years at t
 Charles Irwin Schottland, an authority on social welfare who served as Commissioner of Social Security in the Eisenhower Administration and as the third president of Brandeis University, died on Tuesday at his home in Tucson, Ariz. He was 88. He died in his sleep, said Cathey Moody,
 Sir Edgar Williams, a British Army officer and scholar who helped to win a key World War II battle and to get Rhodes Scholarships awarded to women, died on Monday in Oxford, England, where he lived. He was 82. His death was reported yesterday by The Associated Press. At his 
