 Angelo Pinto, a painter who taught for nearly six decades at the Barnes Foundation in Merion, Pa., died on March 11. He was 85. The cause was a stroke, said his daughter, Jody Pinto. One of five brothers, born in Cas'Avellino, Italy, he grew up in Philadelphia, the son of a 
 Bill Travers, who played the tallest, strongest man in the Scottish Highlands in the 1956 film "Wee Geordie" and became a star in the 1966 movie "Born Free," died on Tuesday at his home in Dorking, England, south of London. He was 72. He died in his sleep, according to the Born Free
 David Van Vactor, a flutist, conductor and composer, died on March 24 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 87. The probable cause was pneumonia, said his wife, Virginia. Mr. Van Vactor was born in Plymouth, Ind., and received a bachelor of music degree from Northwestern Univer
 Frank Schreider, a determined explorer who lived his dream of roaming the rough edges of the earth and supporting his wanderlust by his pen, died on Jan. 21 in his boat off the island of Crete in the Mediterranean.  Mr. Schreider, who maintained a home in Santa Fe, N.M., was 70. Mr.
 Henry Osborne Havemeyer Frelinghuysen, a philanthropist, civic leader and breeder of thoroughbred horses, died on Wednesday at his home in Far Hills, N.J. Mr. Frelinghuysen, who also had a home in Northeast Harbor, Me., was 78. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Frel
 Frank M. Campbell, a retired president of J.P. Duffy & Company a building-supply company in Long Island City, died on Wednesday at his home in Surfside, Fla. He was 75. The cause was a heart attack, said his son, John. During the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941 Mr. C
 Joseph A. Kaplan, a Russian immigrant who prospered by devising and promoting colored shower curtains, died on Tuesday in Beth Israel Hospital. Mr. Kaplan, who lived in Manhattan, was 98. The cause was a stroke, said his son, Harold. Mr. Kaplan arrived in New York when he wa
 Robert Doisneau, whose elegant black-and-white photographs seem the perfect embodiment of Gallic wit and romance, died yesterday at a hospital in Paris. He was 81 and lived in Paris. Mr. Doisneau died of "acute pancreatic complications" after a heart-bypass operation on Oct. 7, said
 Dr. William D. Kaplan, a professor of radiology at Harvard Medical School, died on Wednesday at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in Boston. Dr. Kaplan, who lived in Newton, Mass., was 56. The cause was colon cancer, his wife, Susan, said. Dr. Kaplan was the chief of oncologi
 Anton Tedesko, a consulting engineer who was an expert in sophisticated uses of reinforced concrete in the construction industry, died yesterday at Northwest Hospital in Seattle. He was 90 and had moved to Seattle in 1993 from Bronxville, N.Y. The cause of death was myelofibrosis, a
 Murat W. Williams, a longtime Foreign Service officer who was Ambassador to El Salvador from 1961 to 1964, died on Thursday at the Westminster-Canterbury retirement community in Charlottesville, Va. He was 79. The cause was a stroke, said his son Michael. Mr. Williams joined
 Victor P. Raymond, an Assistant Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs, died on Friday at his home in Washington. He was 46. The cause was complications of AIDS, said his companion, Robert C. Rea. Mr. Raymond was named an assistant secretary for policy and planning 
 Walt Dette, the Catskill Mountains fly tier who passed on his complicated art to future generations, died at his home in Roscoe, N.Y., on Thursday, one day before the trout season opened. He was 86. The cause of death was a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Dette was an exc
 William P. Lynch, a vice president and member of the executive council of the International Longshoremens Association during some of the union's most turbulent times, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 86. The cause was a heart attack, said his son, Gerald. M
 Owen Cardinal McCann, a South African foe of apartheid who was the Roman Catholic Archbishop of Cape Town from 1951 to 1984, died on March 26. He was 86 and had a home in Wynberg, a suburb of Cape Town. He died of a heart attack, The Times of London said on Friday. Cardinal 
 Sir Robert Cockburn, a British radar specialist who helped hamper the ability of German radar to spot British and American bombers during World War II, died on March 21 in Aldershot, southwest of London. He was 85 and lived near Aldershot. Sir Robert was born in Belford, Northumberl
 Stanley J. Love, president of Joseph Love Inc., a manufacturer of children's wear, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 68 years old. The cause was multiple myeloma, a form of bone cancer, said his son, William. Mr. Love was born on March 1, 1926, in Manhattan, an
 Daniel M. Rosen, a lawyer who was an expert on patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, died on Friday at his home in Rhinebeck, N.Y. He was 53. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Rosen began his career as a United States Patent Examiner in Washington. He l
 Felipe Neri Torres, a retired Judge of the Family Court and a former Democratic assemblyman, died on Sunday in White Plains Hospital. He was 96 and lived in the Parkchester section of the Bronx. The cause was pneumonia, said Analisa Torres, a granddaughter. Mayor Robert F. W
 Norman Segal, a Manhattan real-estate developer and patron of the arts, died on Saturday at New York Hospital. He was 50 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause was complications of AIDS, said his wife, Gail Clott. Mr. Segal was the conceptual creator of, an
 Stanley J. Love, president of a children's wear company and an art collector and benefactor of New York museums and other institutions, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 68 years old. The cause was multiple myeloma, a form of bone cancer, said his son, William.        
 Dr. Arthur Berken, a physician who specialized in oncology, died on Saturday at his home in Huntington, L.I. He was 62. At his death he was a senior partner in the Mid-Island Internal Medical Consultants group. He had also been chief of staff and director of the department of medici
 Elliot H. Goodwin, a Republican Party leader in Manhattan in the 1950's, died on Saturday at his home in Glen Cove, L.I. He was 77. The cause was emphysema, said his wife, Hope. Mr. Goodwin served as president of the Ninth Assembly District Republican Club starting in 1955. 
 Henry Gemmill, a former managing editor of The Wall Street Journal, died on Sunday in Washington. He was 76 and had homes in Washington and Franklin, Me. His family said the cause was heart failure. Mr. Gemmill was managing editor of the Journal from 1950 to 1954. A 1939 gra
 Lieut. Gen. John A. Heintges, who was deputy commander of the Military Assistance Command in Vietnam in the 1960's, died on Thursday at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Denver. He was 81 and lived in Colorado Springs. General Heintges died of complications from Parkinson's dis
 John F. Hanley, who founded an executive recruiting firm in New York, died on March 31 in the St. Paul Health Care Center in San Diego, Calif. Mr. Hanley, who lived in San Diego, was 87. The cause was prostate cancer, said Philip Hanley, a nephew. Mr. Hanley founded Hanley A
 Leopold P. Oberst, a New York Telephone Company executive who was on loan to City Hall as a management specialist and efficiency expert in the administrations of Mayors Abraham D. Beame and Edward I. Koch, died on Saturday at Martin Memorial Medical Center in Palm City, Fla. Mr. Oberst, who
 Robert E. Scannell, the corporate secretary of A.T. & T., died on Monday at Mountainside Hospital in Montclair, N.J. Mr. Scannell, who lived in Montclair, was 54. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Scannell became corporate secretary of the communications company in 
 Tom Blackburn, a retired Navy captain who commanded the Jolly Rogers fighter squadron in the Pacific in World War II, died on March 21 at his home in Jacksonville, Fla. He was 81. The cause was cancer, said his son, Mark, of San Francisco. In 1943 Mr. Blackburn formed VF-17,
 William L. Parkerton, the senior vice president and a founding board member of Consumer Credit Counseling Services of Connecticut in Hartford, died on Friday at his home in West Hartford, Conn. He was 49. His family said the cause was cancer. Mr. Parkerton's association with
 Andre Tchelistcheff, a seminal figure in the modern California wine industry and an enologist of international renown, died on Tuesday at Queen of the Valley Hospital in Napa, Calif. He was 92. Mr. Tchelistcheff had cancer of the esophagus and underwent surgery to remove a stomach t
 Barnard Townsend, a retired publishing executive and banker, died on March 24 at his Manhattan home. He was 85. The cause was a heart attack, said his daughter, Diana Townsend-Butterworth. Mr. Townsend was an administrator of the E. W. Scripps Company of Cincinnati from 1955
 Charles Elihu Winer, a television writer and arts administrator, died on Monday at New York University Hospital in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Winer had Alzheimer's disease for several years, said his son, Stephen, of Manhattan. Mr. Winer was born in Cha
 Tribal warfare brought Cyprien Ntaryamira to power in Burundi and dominated his brief presidency, which reportedly ended yesterday when the plane in which he was traveling was shot down in the neighboring country of Rwanda. Mr. Ntaryamira, 39, was the second member of the majority H
 Dan Hartman, a record producer, singer and songwriter, died on March 22 at his home in Westport, Conn. He was 43. The cause was a brain tumor, said his manager, Julian Able. Mr. Hartman wrote and sang many hit songs, including "Free Ride" and "Relight My Fire." He also wrote
 Dick Cary, a jazz arranger, instrumentalist and composer, died yesterday at Glendale Adventist Hospital in Glendale, Calif. He was 77 and lived in Sunland, Calif. The cause was cancer, said Floyd Levin, a jazz writer and friend. Mr. Cary's arrangements were used by many well
 Harvey T. Boyd, a fashion illustrator, art teacher and painter, died on March 19 at the Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 52. The cause was complications from abdominal cancer, his family said. Mr. Boyd taught for 26 years at the Fashion Institute of Technology in 
 President Juvenal Habyarimana of Rwanda, who was reported killed yesterday when his airplane crashed while returning from a conference of African leaders, assumed power over the small Central African country 21 years ago. A former army officer, the 57-year-old Mr. Habyarimana rose t
 Bernard Raymond Bell, an economist and a former deputy director of the World Bank, died on March 29 at his home in Washington. He was 82. He died of cancer, his family said. Mr. Bell began his career as an economist with the Department of Agriculture in 1935. He later became
 Prof. Eric Holtzman, chairman of the department of biological sciences at Columbia University, was found dead in his office on Wednesday. He was 54 and lived in Manhattan. The police said he had apparently committed suicide by poison. Professor Holtzman was a cell biologist 
 Dr. Luther S. Cressman, an anthropologist whose discoveries helped revolutionize thinking about prehistoric cultures in the Pacific Northwest, died on Monday at his home in Eugene, Ore. He was 96. On an archeological dig at Fort Rock in south-central Oregon in 1938, Dr. Cressman's c
 Rear Adm. Ralph K. James, who headed the Navy's Bureau of Ships from 1959 to 1963 and oversaw repairs to battle-damaged American warships in World War II, died on March 31 at the Ginger Cove retirement community in Annapolis, Md. He was 87. Admiral James, who retired from the Navy i
 Roy Smeck, a leading guitarist, banjoist and ukulele player since the days of vaudeville, died on Tuesday at Roosevelt Hospital. He was 94 and lived in Manhattan. He died in his sleep, said Neal Hade, a friend. Mr. Smeck's career spanned 75 years, during which he performed f
 Andrew Paul Zoob, a drummer and the founder of a booking service for musicians, died on March 30 while on vacation in Paris. He was 46. The cause was septic shock, said his wife, Carol Maryan, an architect. Mr. Zoob, who preferred the name Andy, was the leader of the Andy Zo
 Edwin C. McDonald, an executive recruiting consultant, died on Tuesday at his home in Bronxville, N.Y.. He was 74. The cause was prostate cancer, his wife said. Mr. McDonald was chairman of McDonald, Long & Associates, an executive recruiting company in Scarsdale, N.Y. He fo
 Kurt Cobain, the ragged-voiced product of a Pacific Northwest timber town who helped to create the grunge rock sound that has dominated popular music for the last four years, was found dead today at his home here. The police said they believed that Mr. Cobain, the lead singer, guitarist and
 Samuel E. Thorne, a retired legal historian and professor at the Harvard Law School, died on Thursday at the Brookhaven Nursing Center in Lexington, Mass. Mr. Thorne, who lived in Cambridge, Mass., was 87. The cause was a stroke, said a son, Samuel L. Thorne. Mr. Thorne join
 Don Simonelli, a designer of women's clothing who also operated a catering business at one time, died on Friday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. Mr. Simonelli, who lived in Manhattan and South Salem, N.Y., was 56. The cause was complications of asthma, said a friend, Liz Ritter
 George S. Zacharkow, a leader in the maritime insurance industry, died on Tuesday at his home in Bridgton, Me. He was 67 and had lived in Laurel Hollow, L.I., until his retirement three years ago. The cause was pancreatic cancer, according to Continental Insurance, his employer for 
 Michael S. Shower, a senior adviser at the United Nations Children's Fund, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 44. The cause was AIDS, said his sister, Michelle Proctor. As the counselor to Unicef's executive director, Mr. Shower helped plan efforts to help reduc
 Richard Kitchen, a home furnishings designer in Manhattan, died on Thursday at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center. He was 44 years old. The cause was AIDS, said a brother, Gregory. Mr. Kitchen, with his twin brother, Robert, designed household products like china, she
 Robert Massa, a writer about AIDS and an editor with The Village Voice, died yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital. Mr. Massa, who lived in Manhattan, was 36. The cause was AIDS, said a friend, Eileen Blumenthal. In 1987, Mr. Massa founded a newsletter, The Body Positive, a pu
 William E. Zeiter, a corporate law specialist in Philadelphia, died on Friday at the University of Pennsylvania Hospital. He was 59. The cause was a thoracic aneurysm, said his wife, Jean, of Philadelphia. Mr. Zeiter was a senior partner in the firm of Morgan, Lewis & Bockiu
 Max Petitpierre, a former Foreign Minister and President of Switzerland who helped amend his country's traditional policy of neutrality and did not hide his pro-Western leanings, died on March 25 at his home in Neuchatel. He was 95. In announcing his death, the Swiss Government did 
 Col.-Gen. Stefan Guse of the Romanian Army, who figured in the crisis that ended the Ceausescu dictatorship in 1989, died on March 28 in the military hospital in Bucharest. He was 54. The cause was lung cancer, the Reuters news agency reported, citing the Romanian state news agency 
 Jerome Lejeune, a French geneticist who discovered the chromosome abnormality in humans that causes Down syndrome, a common form of mental retardation, died on April 3 in Paris. He was 67 and lived in Paris. The cause was lung cancer, Agence France-Presse reported, citing unidentifi
 Fred Reinglas, a stage manager for Broadway and Off Broadway shows for the last 30 years, died on March 31 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 58 and lived in Greenwich Village. The cause was lymphoma, said Joe Regan Jr., a friend. Mr. Reinglas worked on plays and mu
 Prof. Lawrence B. Anderson, an architect and former dean of the School of Architecture and Planning at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, died on Wednesday at Emerson Hospital in Concord, Mass. He was 87 and lived in Lincoln, Mass. The cause was heart and kidney failure, his
 Matthew Feldman, a New Jersey Democratic legislative leader who served as Mayor of Teaneck and then for 22 years in the State Senate, died yesterday in Holy Name Hospital in Teaneck, N.J. He was 75. The Office of the Senate Democrats said he died of natural causes. Over a lo
 Alvin Ward Vogtle Jr., a former president and chairman of the Atlanta-based Southern Company, parent of one of the country's largest electric grids, died on Sunday at Rockdale Hospital in Conyers, Ga. He was 75 and had lived in Reddick, Fla., since his retirement in 1983. The cause 
 Henry Horowitz, a printer and binder of specialty books for more than 50 years, died on Monday at St. Mary's Hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. Mr. Horowitz, who maintained homes in Palm Beach and Clifton, N.J., was 76. The cause was complications after surgery for a ruptured appendi
 John J. Powers Jr., retired head of Pfizer Inc. in New York, died yesterday at the Good Samaritan Medical Center in West Palm Beach, Fla. Mr. Powers, who lived in North Palm Beach, was 81. The cause was cancer, the company said. Mr. Powers, whose father was a vice president 
 Phillips Stevens, who was headmaster of Williston Academy in Easthampton, Mass., for 23 years until retiring in 1972, died on Monday at Martin Memorial Hospital in Stuart, Fla. He was 80 and lived in Jensen Beach, Fla., and Old Saybrook, Conn. The cause was a stroke, said Sarah Stev
 Dr. Robert L. Leopold, a retired professor of psychiatry at the University of Pennsylvania, died on Saturday at Bryn Mawr Hospital near Philadelphia. Dr. Leopold, who lived in Haverford, Pa., was 71. The cause was cancer, his wife, Edith, said. Dr. Leopold was also a profess
 Allin Whitfield Proudfoot, who headed an agency that specialized in nonprofit fund raising and foundation management, died on Tuesday at a nursing center in Dunedin, Fla. He was 65 and lived in Oldsmar, Fla. The cause was a brain tumor, his family said. Mr. Proudfoot was bor
 Dr. Daniel J. Levinson, a professor of psychology at Yale University who popularized the notion that men as well as women go through what he termed a midlife crisis, died on Tuesday while playing racquetball in New Haven. Dr. Levinson, who lived in Hamden, Conn., was 73. The cause h
 Paul E. Spangler, a retired Navy surgeon who took up running at the age of 67 to prolong his life, died on March 29, providing evidence that his theory on longevity was correct. Dr. Spangler, whose family said he died while on one of the seven-mile runs he made three times a week ne
 James W. Becker, one of the country's leading tournament bridge players, died on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 57 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was heart failure, said Joan Dziekanski, his business partner at the Beverly Bridge Club in Manhattan, which he 
 John Alexander Hill, who was a leading executive at two large insurance agencies and a health care concern, died on Tuesday at Parkview Hospital in Nashville. He was 87 and a resident of Nashville. The cause was a heart attack, said his secretary, Saralee Vaughn. Mr. Hill wa
 Paul V. Gardner, an international expert on ceramics and glass who for almost 30 years was the curator of those fields at the Smithsonian Institution, died on Friday. Mr. Gardner, who lived in Washington, was 85. He collapsed while attending Good Friday services at the Washington Na
 Sanford Schwarz, who had been publisher of Sterling's Magazines and was an active advocate for the use of living wills, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital. Mr. Schwarz, who lived in Manhattan, was 74. The cause was leukemia, said his wife, Charlotte. From 1974 to 1984, Mr
 Adolf J. Snow, who was an executive at Sears, Roebuck & Company when Gen. Robert E. Wood built it into the world's biggest merchandising enterprise, died on Wednesday. He was 100 and lived in Great Neck, L.I. The cause was kidney failure, his family said. A native of Austria
 John William Seigle, a retired major general and vice president of Sikorsky Aircraft of Stratford, Conn., died on April 3 at St. Raphael's Hospital in New Haven. He was 64 and lived in Woodbridge, Conn. The cause was pneumonia, his family said. Mr. Seigle, who was born in Ci
 Philip Fox, a former basketball and soccer official who refereed in the first National Basketball Association season in 1946 and later toured with the Harlem Globetrotters, died on Wednesday at the Metropolitan Jewish Geriatric Center in Brooklyn. He was 80. The cause of death was c
 Bill Winfrey, a trainer of thoroughbreds including Native Dancer and a host of other champions, died on Thursday in a hospital at Lake Forest, Calif. A resident of San Clemente, Calif., he was 77. The cause was complications from Alzheimer's disease, his family said. In all,
 John Curry, the elegant 1976 Olympic champion who infused figure skating with the possibilities of dance, died yesterday of an AIDS-related heart attack, his agent said. Mr. Curry was 44. The British skater died at his home near Stratford upon Avon, England, said the agent, Jean Dia
 Solomon Hoberman, who served as New York City's director of personnel and chairman of its Civil Service Commission from 1967 to 1970, died on Thursday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. Mr. Hoberman, who lived in Manhattan, was 79. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Dorothy.       
 Stanley Mays, a British journalist who worked in New York for foreign publications for more than 40 years, died on Tuesday at the Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan. Mr. Mays, who lived in Manhattan, was 73. The cause was liver cancer, said his wife, Patricia. For the last eight y
 Morton Dolinsky, who had retired as an official spokesman for the Israeli Government in Jerusalem, died in Israel yesterday. Mr. Dolinsky, who lived in Jerusalem, was 63. The cause was the effects of a stroke, said his brother, Hyman Dolinsky. Mr. Dolinsky served as the dire
 Ralph Ellison, whose widely read novel "Invisible Man" was a stark account of racial alienation that foreshadowed the attention Americans eventually paid to divisions in their midst, died yesterday in his apartment on Riverside Drive. He was 80. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said
 Dr. Marcel Bessis, a French physician who was applauded in the United States 30 years ago for his role in developing instruments and techniques for studying portions of single live cells, died on March 28 in Paris. He was 76 and lived in Paris. Dr. Bessis, a leader in that field, wa
 Ron Vawter, an avant-garde actor who was a pillar of the Wooster Group, an experimental theater collective in SoHo, died on Saturday on a plane flying from Zurich to New York, his agent said. He was 45 and lived in Greenwich Village. He died of a heart attack in his sleep and had AI
 Frederick Burr Opper, a retired broadcaster, foreign correspondent and editor, died on Thursday in Norwalk Hospital in Connecticut. A resident of Westport, he was 82. He had a brief illness, his family said. A native of Manhattan, Mr. Opper, who was known as Fritz, graduated
 Giulio Gari, a tenor who sang at both the New York City Opera and the Metropolitan Opera, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 84 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was pneumonia, said his wife, Gloria. Mr. Gari was born in Medias, Romania, in 190
 Maxwell Stewart McKnight, a retired lawyer and former State Department official who held diplomatic posts in postwar Europe, died on Friday at Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Bethesda, Md. He was 83. Mr. McKnight, who lived in Washington, died of cancer, his family said. 
 William Fabrikant, a Manhattan diamond trader, died on Saturday at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center. He was 79 and lived in Great Neck, L.I. He had a long illness, his family said. A 1935 graduate of New York University, Mr. Fabrikant was an expert on diamond and an
 Brian Gormley, executive director of the Silvermine Guild Arts Center in New Canaan, Conn., died on Thursday at Norwalk Hospital in Connecticut. Mr. Gormley, who lived in Norwalk, was 49. The cause was cancer, said his brother, Bruce. Mr. Gormley headed the arts center for t
 Dr. Daniel Rudman, an endocrinologist and nutritionist who devoted his research to the well-being of the frail and elderly, died on Sunday in Froedtert Memorial Lutheran Hospital in Milwaukee. A resident of that city, he was 67. The cause was complications after brain surgery, accor
 Edward B. McMenamin, a retired administrator for the Federal Government and in the private sector, died on Monday at a Manhattan apartment where he and his wife were staying. A former resident of Manhattan, he was 82 and lived in Bridgehampton, L.I. He had been in declining health f
 Dr. Roger Wolcott Sperry, an eminent student of the brain and a winner of the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, died on Sunday in Pasadena, Calif. He was 80 and lived in Pasadena. The cause of death was a heart attack, following a degenerative neuromuscular disease, said Jay Al
 Dr. Carl Pfaffmann, a physiological psychologist who explored the senses of smell and taste and their pathways in the brain, died on Saturday at the Wadsworth Glen in Middletown, Conn. He was 80 and lived in Middletown. The cause was complications from a stroke, said a spokesman for
 Howard Otway, an actor, author and singer who was the owner and director of Theater 80 St. Marks, the longest continuously running movie house devoted exclusively to revival films in New York City, died on Monday at New York University Medical Center. He was 72 and lived in Manhattan.      
 Paul Bruce Dowling, the founder and executive director of the America the Beautiful Fund in Washington, died on Sunday at Arlington Hospital in Arlington, Va. Mr. Dowling, who lived in Arlington, was 67. The cause was heart disease, said his wife, Nanine Dowling. Mr. Dowling
 Royce Perez Blackburn, one of the Blackburn Twins who appeared in musicals, on television and in films, died on April 14 at his home in New Ipswich, N.H. He was 69. The cause was cancer, said his daughter, Robin Blackburn Ellis. At the age of 5, Mr. Blackburn and his twin br
 Saint Subber, the theatrical impresario who produced Neil Simon's most important early hits on Broadway, died on Tuesday at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 76. The cause was heart failure, said Arthur Greene, his acountant and business manager. A producer who was known f
 Sheldon Gitelman, a banker in New York and Washington for 20 years, died on Tuesday at his home in Washington. He was 64. The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Natalie. Mr. Gitelman was an executive vice president of Marine Midland Bank in New York for 12 years before 
 Christopher Lynch, an Irish tenor who sang on the "Voice of Firestone" shows on radio and television, died on April 15 at his home in Worcestershire, England. He was 73. The cause was a heart attack, said Fred Manning, a family friend. Mr. Lynch was born in County Limerick, 
 Judge Edward R. Neaher, who served on the Federal District Court in Brooklyn from 1971 until 1988, died on Tuesday at the Bethesda Rehabilitation and Nursing Center in Chevy Chase, Md. Judge Neaher, who lived in Washington, was 81. The cause was prostate cancer, said his daughter, R
 George Greenspan, a retired textile manufacturer and philanthropist, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 93. The cause was leukemia, his family said. A native of Manhattan, Mr. Greenspan graduated from Columbia University, where he later served as chairman of 
 A native of Russia, Mr. Talalay was educated in England and graduated with a degree in chemistry from University College in London. He came to this country in 1940. During World War II, he developed a device that reduced the risk of fuel fires in bombers. But he was best known for c
 Peter B. Seaman, a real-estate sales executive, died on Saturday in Greenwich Hospital in Connecticut. Mr. Seaman, who lived in Greenwich, was 42. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Nancy. Mr. Seaman was the chairman of the Houlihan/Lawrence Company, a real-estate business
 Peter Hackes, whose daily radio program for retired Americans, "Mature Focus," has been broadcast by several hundred radio stations for the last seven years, died on Sunday at Georgetown University Hospital. He was 69 and lived in Washington. The cause was a heart attack, said his w
 Stanley Ring Klion, a management consultant and retired executive vice chairman and chief operating partner of Peat Marwick International, one of the world's largest accounting and management-consulting firms, died on Monday at White Plains Hospital. He was 70 and lived in Greenwich, Conn. 
 Dr. Sidney Charles Werner, who advanced the modern understanding of Graves' disease, died on Thursday at a nursing home in Tucson, Ariz. He was 84. The cause was pneumonia, his family said. Dr. Werner had moved to Tucson from Manhattan after his retirement from Columbia Univ
 Prof. Mieczeslaw Maneli, an expert on international law and political science, died on April 9 in New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 72 and lived in Forest Hills. The cause was heart failure, his family said. Professor Maneli was dismissed as department chairma
 Richard Milhous Nixon, the 37th President of the United States, who was the only President in more than two centuries of American history to resign from office, died last night at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 81 years old and lapsed into a deep coma on Thursday m
 David R. Butler, an industrial designer and stylist of corporate identity symbols, died on Friday at his home in Westport, Conn. He was 53. The cause was cancer, said his daughter, Jennifer Butler. Mr. Butler was a co-founder and the former chairman of Lister Butler Inc., a 
 To millions of Americans, Richard Milhous Nixon was the most puzzling and fascinating politician of his time. He was a man of high intelligence and innovative concepts whose talents, especially in international affairs, were widely respected by both friend and foe. Yet he was so motivated b
 Alighiero e Boetti, an Italian Conceptual artist who saw his work as a collaboration between different people, cultures and disciplines, died on Sunday at his home in Rome. He was 53. The cause was brain cancer, said Gianenzo Sperone, whose gallery in Rome represented the artist for
 Constantine Simonides, who was both vice president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and secretary of the M.I.T. board, died on Sunday while playing tennis at Wellesley College. He was 59 and lived in Wellesley, Mass. The apparent cause was heart failure, said his son, Ph
 Lieut. Col. Charles W. Shea, who won the Medal of Honor and a battlefield commission in Italy in 1944, died on April 7 at Central General Hospital in Plainview, L.I. He was 72 and a resident of Plainview. The cause of death was a heart attack, his family said. Colonel Shea d
 Dr. Robert Lowell Krigel, a cancer specialist who led a 1979 campaign in New York City to relieve the grinding work schedules of hospital interns and residents, died on Sunday at his home in Elkins Park, Pa. He was 44. The cause was angiosarcoma of the liver, a rare cancerous tumor,
 Donald Jesse Atwood, a retired vice chairman of the General Motors Corporation and Deputy Secretary of Defense in the Bush Administration, died on Sunday in a hospital in Royal Oaks, Ill. He was 69 and lived in Franklin, Mich., a Detroit suburb. He had an ulcer operation earlier tha
 George Oliver, a leading professional polo player from the 1930's to the 1960's, died yesterday at his home in Sparta, N.C. He was 83. The cause of death was pneumonia, the family said. Mr. Oliver, who was born in Yonkers, grew up on a ranch in Salmon, Idaho, where his fathe
 Dr. James William Corbett, a researcher in semiconductor and solid-state physics, died on Monday at St. Peter's Hospital in Albany. He was 65 and lived in nearby East Berne. The cause was brain injuries from a fall in his home, said a spokesman from the State University of New York 
 John C. Russell, a playwright whose works appeared in Off Broadway theaters in New York City, died on Friday in New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 31 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was AIDS, his parents said. Mr. Russell belonged to the Circle Repertory's Playwrights 
 Karl Hess, an anarchist who was once a conservative aide in the Republican Party, died on Friday at the University of Virginia Hospital in Charlottesville. Mr. Hess, who lived in Kearneysville, W. Wa., was 70. The cause was complications following a heart transplant, said his wife, 
 Frederic Paige Kimball, a retired aviation consultant who served for 30 years as a Justice of the Peace, died on April 20 at his home in Westport, Conn. He was 79. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Jeanne Bachrach Kimball. A native of Dedham, Mass., Mr. Kimball graduated 
 James Raitt, the musical director of the current productions of "Damn Yankees" on Broadway and "Forever Plaid" Off Broadway, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 41. The cause was AIDS, said Guy Stroman, a friend. Mr. Raitt was the musical director and vocal arran
 Joseph Marshall, a former dancer with Feld Ballets/NY, the Joffrey Ballet and Oregon Ballet Theater, died on April 14 in Portland, Ore. He was 28. The cause was AIDS, said Lyle Sweeney, his companion. The dancer, whose full name was Joseph Marshall Brown, studied at the Joff
 William Horowitz, a Connecticut banker who was also a leader in his state's educational, religious and civic affairs, died on Monday at the Yale-New Haven Hospital. Mr. Horowitz, who lived in Branford, Conn., was 86. The cause was heart failure, said his son, David. A longti
 Benjamin A. Rowe, a real-estate executive, died on Wednesday at Greenwich Hospital in Connecticut. Mr. Rowe, who lived in Greenwich, was 80. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Marjorie. Mr. Rowe was the chairman of Preferred Properties in Greenwich, a company he cofounded 
 Berton Roueche, a staff writer at The New Yorker for nearly 50 years who originated the Annals of Medicine series that chronicled the war against disease in elegant narratives of medical intrigue and detection, died yesterday at his home in Amagansett, L.I. He was 83 years old. He c
 Howard Sochurek, a photographer for Life magazine on assignment throughout the world and later a pioneer in computer-assisted imaging, died on Monday in Jackson Memorial Hospital in Miami. Mr. Sochurek, who lived in Boynton Beach, Fla., was 69. The cause was liver cancer, said his w
 Capt. James W. Liebertz, who served as athletic director of the United States Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, L.I., from 1950 to 1972, died on Monday. He was 80 and lived in Stamford, Conn. He died at a Stamford convalescent home after a long illness, the Academy said.      
 John W. Byington, a market research expert, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 46. The cause was AIDS, according to the NPD Group Worldwide Inc. in Port Washington, L.I. Mr. Byington was a former president of the group, a market research company. Most recentl
 John Preston, a writer and editor and a leader of groups involved with gay rights and treatment of AIDS, died yesterday at his home in Portland, Me. He was 48. He died of AIDS-related causes, said Melinda Mullin, his New York publicist. Mr. Preston wrote or edited more than 
 Carlo Rossi, who became a television and radio personality promoting the Gallo jug wines that were named for him, died on Wednesday in Modesto, Calif. He was 90. His family said he had been ill for a long time. Mr. Rossi's down-home awkwardness on camera made him a popular p
 Franklin B. Dryden, a leading lobbyist and public relations executive for the tobacco industry in Washington for 14 years, died on Thursday at the Manor Care Nursing Center in Arlington, Va. He was 78. The cause was respiratory failure, said his son, Steven Dryden. From 1966
 Joseph Luis Lopez Jr., a co-author of "I Will Sing Life: Voices From the Hole in the Wall," an award-winning book by and about children with life-threatening medical problems, died on Thursday at his family home in Jersey City, N.J. He was 15. He died of AIDS after being in a coma f
 Lorenzo Bianco Schlick, a dancer whose stage name was Larry Bianco, died on March 16 at his home in Brooklyn. He was 61. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Schlick studied ballet in New York City and made Russian and character dancing his specialty. He performed in t
 Dr. Norvin C. Kiefer, a Federal public health official and chief medical director of the Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States in New York, died on April 18 at North Bay Medical Center in New Port Richey, Fla. He was 89 and lived in New Port Richey, where he retired from the
 Russell Kirk, who was the author of more than 30 books and hundreds of essays, reviews and syndicated columns and was a founder of the modern conservative movement in the United States, died yesterday at his home in Mecosta, Mich. He was 75. Dr. Kirk died of congestive heart failure
