 Alfred Spellman Moss, a retired advertising and publishing executive, died on Dec. 19 at his home in Manhattan. He was 79 years old. He died after a brief illness, his family said. Mr. Moss, who had an M.B.A. degree from Harvard University, retired three years ago as busines
 Benjamin J. Buttenwieser, a banker, philanthropist and civic leader, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 91 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of a heart attack after being admitted to the hospital with low blood pressure, his family said. He served from 193
 Earl W. Kintner, a chairman of the Federal Trade Commission in the Eisenhower Administration and a longtime senior partner in the Washington law firm of Arent, Fox, Kintner, Plotkin & Kahn, died on Saturday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 79 years old and lived in Washingt
 Francis Tursi, a chamber musician and professor of viola at the Eastman School of Music for 36 years, died on Sunday at Bryn Mawr Hospital after a heart attack. He was 69 years old and lived in Bryn Mawr. Mr. Tursi, originally from Camden, N.J., studied viola and composition at the 
 Mitchell D. Schweitzer, who retired in 1972 as a New York State Supreme Court Justice after more than 26 years on various benches in New York City courts, died on Monday at the Jersey Shore Medical Center in Neptune, N.J. A former resident of Manhattan, Judge Schweitzer was 86 years old and
 Raymond R. Guest, a former Ambassador to Ireland who was a champion polo player and horse breeder, died yesterday in Mary Washington Hospital in Fredericksburg, Va. He was 84 years old and lived in King George, Va. He died of pneumonia after a long illness, his family said. 
 Edward John Willi, a New York lawyer, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. Mr. Willi, a lifelong resident of Manhattan, was 88 years old. He died after a long illness, his family said. Mr. Willi, a graduate of Dartmouth College and Harvard Law School, practiced corporate
 C. H. Tunnicliffe Jones, a Long Island lawyer and former village official in Hempstead, died on Sunday at Winthrop-University Hospital in Mineola. He was 91 years old and had lived in Hempstead since 1925. Mr. Jones died of complications from a broken hip he suffered in a fall Dec. 
 Frank G. Carrington, a lawyer who served on a Presidential panel that advocated victims' rights, died in a fire yesterday at his home in Virginia Beach, Va. He was 55. Mr. Carrington devoted his legal career to addressing the needs of victims of crime, arguing that they had been ove
 Jacques Aubuchon, an actor who appeared in more than 20 feature films, 300 television dramas and 10 Broadway plays, died on Saturday at his home in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 67 years old. He died of heart failure, said his daughter-in-law, Joanna Lipari Aubuchon. During 
 Ron Christopher, an AIDS educator, died on Sunday at Roosevelt Hospital. He was 53 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of lymphoma, said his longtime companion, Philip Williams. Mr. Christopher helped develop the curriculum at the AIDS Training Institute of the New Yor
 Alan Edward Himelick, a retired advertising executive, died Dec. 27 at New Milford Hospital in New Milford, Conn. He was 62 years old and lived in Washington Depot, Conn. He died of cancer, his family said. In a 21-year career at Young & Rubicam, he started as a copywriter i
 Edward M. Love Jr., a Broadway dancer, choreographer and former member of the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, died on Dec. 27 at his home in Manhattan. He was 43 years old. He died of AIDS, said his lawyer, Elliot J. Lefkowitz. Mr. Love performed on Broadway in "Raisin,"
 James Frederick Bere, the chairman and chief executive of the billion-dollar Borg-Warner Corporation and a Chicago civic figure, died early yesterday at his home in Hinsdale, Ill., a Chicago suburb. He was 69 years old. A statement issued at the Chicago headquarters of Borg-Warner s
 Mr. Gallagher was an executive at the stock brokerage company of Merrill Lynch for 32 years and a former member of the New York Stock Exchange's Board of Governors. He was born in Brooklyn, was a graduate of Columbia University and served in the Merchant Marine during World War II. 
 Mike Frankovich, the producer of films like "Bob and Carol and Ted and Alice" and "The Shootist," died Wednesday in Los Angeles at the age of 82. He died of pneumonia and had Alzheimer's disease, family members said. Mr. Frankovich was born in Bisbee, Ariz., and grew up in L
 Robert Wakefield Armstrong, retired chairman of the Revlon subsidiary that introduced the company's perfumes and other cosmetics to the Soviet Union and markets in Asia, died on Wednesday at the Stamford Hospital in Connecticut. He was 69 years old and lived in New Canaan. He died o
 Ron Christopher, an AIDS educator, died on Sunday at Roosevelt Hospital. He was 53 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of lymphoma, said his companion, Philip Williams. Mr. Christopher helped develop the curriculum at the AIDS Training Institute of the New York City He
 Dr. Samuel Mortimer Peck, a prominent New York dermatologist long associated with Mount Sinai Medical Center, died Monday at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 91 years old and also had a residence, as well as his private practice, on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He died after
 Edward M. Love Jr., a Broadway dancer, choreographer and former member of the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, died on Dec. 27 at his home in Manhattan. He was 43 years old. He died of AIDS, said his lawyer, Elliot J. Lefkowitz. Mr. Love performed on Broadway in "Raisin,"
 George L. Fichtenbaum, a retired travel industry official, died on Monday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 66 years old and lived in Little Neck, Queens. He died of complications from cancer, his family said. Mr. Fichtenbaum was the executive director of the American
 George H. Wiedeman, a psychiatrist and educator, died Dec. 27 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 79 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of a heart attack, his family said. Born in Moscow, he studied in Berlin and Frankfurt, and earned his medi
 John J. Gallagher Jr., a retired Wall Street executive, died on Monday at his home in Plandome Manor, L.I. He was 72 years old. He died of a heart attack, relatives said. Mr. Gallagher was an executive at the stock brokerage company of Merrill Lynch for 32 years and a former
 John L. Schimel, a noted psychoanalyst, died on Tuesday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He lived in Manhattan and had a second home in Truro, Mass. Dr. Schimel, who was 75 years old, died of cancer, his family said. Dr. Schimel, who practiced for 50 years, was a past pres
 Jose Guerrero, a Spanish-born painter who worked for many years in the United States, died in Barcelona on Dec. 23. He was 77 years old. His death was caused by complications from multiple myeloma, a form of cancer, said his son, Jose Antonio Guerrero. Known for big, vibrant
 Curt Bois, a dapper German actor who performed in nearly 70 films, has died here. He was 90 years old. Mr. Bois, who went to Hollywood after fleeing the Nazis in 1933, died on Christmas Day, said a statement from the Schiller Theater here. Mr. Bois, a native Berliner, had worked at 
 Irving B. Kravis, a noted economist and educator who specialized in international price comparisons, died Friday after becoming ill at the Philadelphia airport on his way to receive an award. He was 75 years old and lived in Haverford, Pa. His family said he was suffering from lymph
 Jesse C. Goodwin, co-founder of Mother's Food Products, which packaged kosher foods, died on Dec. 30 at St. Barnabas Medical Center in Livingston, N.J. He was 76 years old and lived in Verona, N.J. He died of heart failure caused by a variety of pulmonary conditions, his son Richard
 John Elliott, a foreign correspondent whose prophetic criticisms of Hitler led him to join the Allied effort and become a postwar occupation official in Germany, died on Saturday at the Fernwood House nursing home in Washington. He was 95 years old. He died of natural causes, but a 
 Marty James, a counselor who said on national television that he helped people with AIDS commit suicide, took his own life after battling the disease, a friend said. He was 38 years old. Mr. James died on Dec. 25 at his West Hollywood home after taking sleeping pills, his companion,
 Muhammad I. Kenyatta, a legal scholar and civil rights crusader who sued the Federal Government in 1969 for harassing him under an F.B.I. counterintelligence program, died in Buffalo on Friday. He was 47 years old. Mr. Kenyatta, a visiting professor at the University at Buffalo Scho
 S. Maurice Plotnick, an educator who headed the Westchester Day School in Mamaroneck, N.Y., died Dec. 28 at White Plains Hospital. He was 76 years old. Mr. Plotnick died of prostate cancer, his family said. A scholarship student at Cambridge University , he graduated with an
 Arthur Eugene Milford, a film editor who won Academy Awards for editing Frank Capra's "Lost Horizon" (1937) and Elia Kazan's "On the Waterfront" (1954), died on Dec. 23 at Santa Monica Hospital in California. He was 89 years old. He died of pneumonia, said his wife, Dorothy.        
 William G. (Beaver) Harris, a jazz drummer who worked with the leading avant-gardists of the 1960's and led his own groups, died on Dec. 22 at his home in New York City. He was 55 years old. His wife, Glo, said he died of prostate cancer. With avant-garde groups, Mr. Harris'
 Jesse C. Goodwin, co-founder of Mother's Food Products, which packaged kosher foods, died on Dec. 30 at St. Barnabas Medical Center in Livingston, N.J. He was 76 years old and lived in Verona, N.J. He died of heart failure caused by a variety of pulmonary conditions, his son Richard
 Pedro Manuel Valls, a partner in the New York interior design firm of Siskin-Valls and a former fashion assistant to Halston, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 41 years old. The cause of death was complications from AIDS, said his partner and longtime companion, Paul S
 Dr. Robert Gordis, an author, rabbi and biblical scholar at the Jewish Theological Seminary, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 83 years old. He died of complications after a stroke, his family said. Dr. Gordis, who was ordained at the seminary in 1932, taught B
 Aldo Clement Podesta, a retired fund-raising executive and former member of the Rye, N.Y., Board of Education, died on Saturday at United Hospital in Port Chester, N.Y. He was 72 years old and lived in Rye. He died suddenly as a result of adverse reactions to medication, his family 
 Frank Yerby, who wrote 32 historical novels that sold in the millions, died on Nov. 29 in a hospital in Madrid. He was 76 years old and lived in Madrid. He died of heart failure, said his wife, Blanca. She said she had kept news of her husband's death secret for five weeks at his re
 James F. Simms, an official of the United States Olympic Committee and the Amateur Athletic Union for more than a half-century, died of heart disease on Monday in Point Pleasant (N.J.) Hospital. He was 86 years old. He lived in Manasquan, N.J., until he was confined four years ago t
 Joe Sapora, the wiry collegiate wrestling champion who coached the sport at City College from 1932 to 1968 and helped steer Henry Wittenberg to the heavyweight gold medal in the 1948 Olympics, died Monday at Ormond Beach Memorial Hospital in Florida. He was 87 years old and lived in Daytona
 Prof. Kurt H. Weil, a figure in early German aviation history and professor emeritus at Stevens Institute of Technology, died last Thursday at his home in Montclair, N.J. He was 96 years old. He was long associated with Prof. Hugo Junkers, the aircraft designer, and the Junkers Avia
 Lewis Michael Friedman, a leading cabaret impresario in New York City in the 1970's and 80's, died on Friday at his home in Cazadero, Calif. He was 47 years old. He died of AIDS, said his mother, Kit Friedman of Dayton, Ohio. An accomplished pianist and composer, Mr. Friedma
 Werner Dannheisser, a businessman and art collector, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 83 years old and also had a home in East Hampton, L.I. He had been ill for some years with Parkinson's disease, said his wife, the former Elaine Fansling. Fleeing Nazi Germ
 Andrew Marton, a film director who specialized in action scenes like the chariot race in the 1959 "Ben Hur," died on Tuesday at St. John's Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 83 years old and lived in Los Angeles. He died of pneumonia, said his sister, Elisabeth, of New York Cit
 Edward F. Carpenter, who as founding headmaster of Harlem Preparatory School helped transform dropouts into Ivy Leaguers, died on Monday at Englewood Hospital in Engelwood, N.J.  He was 71 years old and lived in Teaneck, N.J. He died of heart failure, his family said. Harlem
 Richard Hunt, a puppeteer known for his work on the "Muppet Show," died on Tuesday at Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan. He was 40 years old. He died of H.I.V. complications, his family said. Mr. Hunt, a native of the Bronx, was a member of Jim Henson Productions for more than 20
 Francis M. Pipkin, a former associate dean and physics department chairman at Harvard University, died Sunday at Mount Auburn Hospital in Cambridge, Mass. He was 66 years old and lived in Belmont, Mass. The cause of death was a heart ailment, his family said. Mr. Pipkin, a n
 The Rev. Gabor Csordas, a retired leader of Hungarian Protestants in America and a spokesman for Hungarian religious and political causes, died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 71 years old and lived in Manhattan with a second home in New City, N.Y. He died of
 Israel M. Labovitz, a retired Federal budget official and expert on aid to state and local governments, died on Jan. 1 at George Washington University Hospital. He was 84 years old and lived in Mitchellville, Md. He died of heart failure, his family said. Serving in the Bure
 Murray J. Shiff, a retired construction manager for Tishman Realty and Construction of Manhattan who worked on several major building projects, died on Dec. 31 at his home in Healdsburg, Calif. He was 74 years old. He had been hospitalized for heart illness and apparently died of na
 Peter Gray Meek, a retired executive for health and voluntary agencies, died Tuesday at Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 80 years old and lived in Wyckoff, N.J. He died of heart failure, his doctor, Dr. Bradley Kaufman, said. Mr. Meek was appointed executive directo
 Royall Victor Jr., the retired presiding partner of a prominent Manhattan law firm, died Wednesday at Concord Hospital in Concord, N.H. He was 75 years old and lived in Hopkinton, N.H., and Webster, N.H., and previously was a longtime resident of Glen Head, L.I. He died of complicat
 Bill Naughton, who drew a memorable portrait of a woman-chasing Cockney in his 1964 play "Alfie," died on Thursday at his home on the Isle of Man. He was 81 years old. His family did not disclose the cause of death, The Associated Press reported. Mr. Naughton was described a
 Charles (Chip) Mulberger, a Broadway wardrobe supervisor and dresser, died on Sunday at Bryn Mawr Hospital in Pennsylvania. He was 42 years old. He died of AIDS, said his mother, Doris Mulberger, of Gladwyne, Pa. Mr. Mulberger worked in various costume houses before becoming
 Harry F. Reiss Jr., a retired leader in the accounting profession, died Monday at his home in Manhasset, L.I. He was 75 years old. He died of emphysema, his family said. Mr. Reiss was a former partner in the accounting firm of Ernst & Young in Manhattan. He was also a past p
 James E. Hair, one of 13 blacks who broke the Navy's color barrier by tutoring each other and winning record scores to become officers in World War II, died on Jan. 3 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 76 years old and lived in Queens. The apparent cause of
 Joseph J. Linhart, a recording industry executive, died on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 72 years old. He died of heart failure, said his son, Peter Hirshberg, of Palo Alto, Calif. From 1961 to 1966, Mr. Linhart was the musical director of RCA Victor's
 Carl Bridenbaugh, an authority on Colonial America, died last Monday at Rhode Island Hospital in Providence. He was 88 years old and lived in Providence, where he had taught at Brown University. The cause of death was cancer, a family spokesman said. Mr. Bridenbaugh was the 
 David H. Edwards Jr., a State Supreme Court judge in Manhattan who presided over several notable cases, died on Friday at his home in Queens. He was 69 years old and died of heart failure, his family said. Justice Edwards in 1988 ordered that $16 million of the purse from the Michae
 Stephen B. Judelson, a retired Wall Street executive and a pioneer in the high-yield "junk bond" business, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. Mr. Judelson, who was 56 years old and had a second residence in Quogue, L.I., died of cancer, his family said. "He was one of 
 Eugene B. Horowitz, the author of five published novels, died on Friday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 61 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of a heart attack, said Stan Herman, his companion for the last 39 years and president of the Council of Fashion De
 Edward C. Anderberg, the retired president and chief administrative officer of Green Point Savings Bank, died Thursday at North Shore University Hospital in Glen Cove, L.I. He was 76 years old and lived in Laurel Hollow, L.I. He died of cancer, his family said. Mr. Anderberg
 Robert L. Hess, who assumed the presidency of Brooklyn College amid campus turmoil and decline in the 1970's and led the era of its resurgence as a top-ranked school, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 59 years old and lived in Brooklyn. He died of lym
 Stephen B. Judelson, a retired Wall Street executive and a pioneer in the high-yield "junk bond" business, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. Mr. Judelson, who was 56 years old and had a second residence in Quogue, L.I., died of cancer, his family said. "He was one of 
 Dr. Anthony N. B. Garvan, an architectural historian, died on Friday at Chestnut Hill Hospital in Philadelphia. He was 74 years old and lived in Spring House, Pa. He died of heart failure, said his wife, Beatrice. Dr. Garvan was born in Raquette Lake, N.Y., and earned his ba
 James I. Loeb, a former Ambassador to Peru and Guinea and the first national executive secretary of Americans for Democratic Action, died on Friday at the Alice Peck Day Extended Care Facility in Lebanon, N.H. He was 83 years old and was a resident of Hanover, N.H. He died of pneumo
 Hugh Meade Alcorn Jr., the Republican national chairman from 1957 to 1959 during the Eisenhower Administration, died yesterday at his home in Suffield, Conn. He was 84 years old. The cause of his death was a stroke, his daughter said. Mr. Alcorn, who was known as Meade, had 
 Randolph Linsly Simpson, a voice teacher and collector of black Americana, died on Jan. 6 at Veterans Hospital in West Haven, Conn. He was 64 years old and lived in Northford, Conn. He died of lung cancer, said his brother, Josiah, of South Salem, N.Y. Mr. Simpson was born i
 T. Eric Embry, a retired justice of the Alabama Supreme Court, died Sunday in Birmingham. He was 70 years old and lived in Birmingham. Justice Embry, who as a trial lawyer represented The New York Times in what became the landmark libel case New York Times Company v. Sullivan, died 
 Col. William Range, a former director of Greater New York operations for the Salvation Army, died on Jan. 6 at Community Hospital in Chelsea, Mich. He was 86 years old and lived in Asbury Park, N.J., before moving to Chelsea last fall. He died from complications following gall bladd
 Edward Woods Doherty, a retired Foreign Service officer and foreign affairs adviser to the United States Catholic Conference, died on Friday at Washington Hospital Center. He was 77 years old and lived in West River, Md. His family said he died of a heart ailment. Mr. Dohert
 Martin Dibner, a novelist and arts administrator, died on Saturday at his home in Casco, Me. He was 80 years old. He died of heart failure, said his son Stephen. Mr. Dibner, a native of Brooklyn, attended the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, earning a bachel
 The Rev. John B. Sheerin, a Roman Catholic editor, columnist and pioneer in interfaith relations, died on Monday at St. Joseph's Nursing Home in Totowa, N.J., after a long illness. He was 85 years old. From 1948 to 1972, Father Sheerin was editor of The Catholic World, a monthly jou
 Robert B. McNee, a prominent geography professor who once headed the American Geographical Society, died Jan. 8 at the U.C.L.A. Medical Center. He was 69 years old and lived in Los Angeles. He died of complications of lung cancer, his family said. Dr. McNee helped expand the
 Rodney Griffin, a dancer, choreographer and co-founder of the Theater Dance Collection company, died on Dec. 26 at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 46 years old. He died of AIDS, said David Haynes, his companion. Mr. Griffin trained at the Martha Graham School in Manha
 Willard Ching, a noted interior designer of commercial buildings and a leader in professional societies in his industry, died Tuesday at New York University Hospital. He was 50 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of respiratory failure complicated by AIDS, said Charles Bell, a
 Dr. William Edward Bunney Sr., a biochemist who was formerly a director and vice president of E. R. Squibb and Sons in charge of worldwide manufacturing, died Jan. 8 at the University of California-Irvine Medical Center while on a family visit to Southern California. He was 89 years old and
 Angel Penna Sr., trainer of thoroughbred horses that won more than 250 stakes races in his 50-year career, died of cancer Wednesday at his home in Garden City, L.I. He was 68 years old. Mr. Penna, born in Buenos Aires, was the eldest son of one of Argentina's leading trainers. He sa
 Francis A. O'Neill Jr., who played a leading role in settling major airline and railroad strikes as a longtime member and chairman of the National Mediation Board, died Tuesday at Martin Memorial Hospital in Stuart, Fla., where he was visiting. He was 83 years old and lived in Manasquan, N.
 Herminio Portell Vila, a Cuban historian of Cuban-United States relations who taught Fidel Castro, gave him some unheeded advice and left Cuba after the rebel leader seized power, died on Monday at his home in Miami. He was 90 years old. The cause of death was not immediately disclo
 Malcolm J. Arth, a retired anthropolgist and innovative museum educator, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 61 years old. His relatives said he died after a long illness.. Dr. Arth, who retired last fall after 21 years as chairman of the Education Department at 
 Richard G. Denzer, a longtime prosecutor who helped rewrite New York State's penal laws, died on Wednesday while on a family visit in Kensington, Md. He was 80 years old and had homes in Manhattan and Boca Raton, Fla. He died of cancer, his family said. Mr. Denzer, a native 
 Arthur Karasz, who headed the World Bank's European office from 1968 until his retirement in 1973, died on Wednesday at his home in Paris. He was 84 years old. His family said he died of respiratory failure. Mr. Karasz, a native of what is now Cluj, Romania, earned a law deg
 James Mark, a talent agent who was a prototype of the colorful agents celebrated in Woody Allen's film "Broadway Danny Rose," died yesterday at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 83 years old. He died of cancer, said his son, Laurence, a film producer in Los Angeles. Mr
 Theodore D. Small, a pioneer in training and placement programs that found jobs for tens of thousands of disabled people, died on Monday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 52 years old. The cause of death apparently was heart failure, his family said. Mr. Small's programs aided
 W. John Kenney, a top official in the United States Navy during World War II and in the Marshall Plan program for postwar recovery overseas, died Thursday at his home in Washington. He was 87 years old and died of pneumonia, his family said. Serving under Presidents Franklin
 Charlie Ventura, a tenor saxophone star of the big-band era, died on Friday at Greenwood Health Care Center in Pleasantville, N.J. He was 75 years old and lived in Atlantic City. He died of cancer of the lung, a family member said. Mr. Ventura is remembered as a jazz great o
 Vernon E. Megee, a pioneer in combat aviation for the Marine Corps and the only person in that service to rise from private to the service's highest rank, four-star general, died Tuesday at the St. Francis Gardens nursing home in Albuquerque, N.M. General Megee, who was 91 years old
 Leonard L. Osten, an advertising salesman and executive for national magazines for more than five decades, died on Friday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 87 years old and was a resident of Great Neck. He died of natural causes after a brief hospitalizati
 Milton Blutnick, who survived two Nazi camps and became a leader in organizations dedicated to commemorating the Holocaust and helping its survivors, died on Wednesday at his home in Forest Hills, Queens. He was 69 years old. He died of a heart attack, his family said. Mr. B
 Charlie Ventura, a tenor saxophone star of the big-band era, died on Friday at Greenwood Health Care Center in Pleasantville, N.J. He was 75 years old and lived in Atlantic City. He died of cancer of the lung, a family member said. Mr. Ventura is remembered as a jazz great o
 John L. Martin, a Columbia University professor and an AIDS researcher who started a pioneering study on the sexual behavior of gay men and the emotional impact of the AIDS epidemic, died of the disease on Friday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 38 years old and had his primary re
 Oliver R. Grace, a philanthropist and co-founder of a major private investment company, died on Thursday while vacationing at the Everglades Club in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 82 years old and was a resident of Oyster Bay, L.I. He died of a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Gr
 Shizuo Takano, a former electronics executive who led the development of the VHS videocassette recorder, died today in Japan, news reports said. He was 68 years old. He died of a respiratory ailment, according to The Associated Press, which attributed the information to Mr. Takano's
 Sven H. Dodington, the inventor of the basic navigation system used to guide aircraft throughout the world, died on Jan. 13 at the Crestwood Nursing Home in Whippany, N.J. He was 79 years old and a resident of Mountain Lakes, N.J. He died of natural causes after a long illness, his 
 Henry M. Stommel, a leading theoretician on ocean currents, died Friday at the age of 71 at the New England Deaconess Hospital in Boston. His wife, Elizabeth Stommel, said he died of a heart attack after surgery for a liver tumor. He lived in Woods Hole, Mass. Although he never earn
 Paul P. Gewirtz, a retired music-publishing executive, died on Saturday while vacationing in Satellite Beach, Fla. He was 87 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of pneumonia at Holmes Hospital in Melbourne, Fla., his family said. A native of Manhattan, Mr. Gewirtz bega
 Pietro di Donato, whose novel "Christ in Concrete" was acclaimed as an American classic when it was published in 1938, died on Sunday at University Hospital in Stony Brook, L.I. He was 80 years old and lived in Setauket, L.I., for many years. He died of bone cancer, said Teresa Cers
 Benjamin Davis Gilbert, a private investor who was involved in widely divergent enterprises, died suddenly on Jan. 15 at his home in Darien, Conn. He was 84 years old. He died of circulatory problems in his sleep, his family said. Mr. Gilbert, a native of Rochester, graduate
 Champion Jack Dupree, a New Orleans-born jazz pianist whose barrelhouse style influenced rock musicians like Eric Clapton and John Mayall, died of cancer on Tuesday at his home in Hanover, Germany. He was 82 years old and had lived in Hanover since 1975. He had been living in Europe
 Dr. Joseph Garrott Allen, an expert on blood who was a professor emeritus and a former chairman of the department of surgery at Stanford University's School of Medicine, died on Jan. 10 at his home on the Stanford campus. He was 79 years old. A statement at Stanford said he died of 
 Ernest Pendrell, a producer of television documentaries and a playwright in television's early years, died yesterday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 78 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of throat cancer, said his wife, Dorothy. From 1965 to 1978, Mr. Pendrel
 John R. Everett, the first Chancellor of the City University of New York and the president emeritus of the New School for Social Research, died yesterday at Cabrini Medical Center. He was 73 years old and lived in Manhattan and Pawling, N.Y. He died of pancreatic cancer, the New Sch
 A. J. Antoon, the stage director who won a Tony Award for "That Championship Season," died yesterday at New York University Medical Center. He was 47 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of AIDS, said Lisa Juliano, his assistant on the long-running Off Broadway musical "Song of
 David Bernstein, a leader in civic, business and Republican circles in Oyster Bay, L.I., and the father-in-law of the State Senate majority leader, Ralph J. Marino, died on Friday at his home in Oyster Bay. He was 98 years old. He died in his sleep, said his daughter, Ethel Marino o
 George S. Odiorne, developer of a management concept that became popular with businesses around the world, died on Sunday at Humana Hospital-Northside in St. Petersburg, Fla. He was 71 years old and lived in St. Petersburg, where he retired three years ago. The cause of death was ap
 John Remme, an actor, singer and cabaret performer, died on Saturday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 56 years old. He died of AIDS, said Suzanne Smith, a friend. Mr. Remme was born in Fargo, N.D., and came to New York City in the 1950's to pursue a theatric
 Dr. Arthur M. Fishberg, a retired hospital official and an authority on hypertension, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 93 years old. He died of respiratory failure and Parkinson's disease, said Felix A. Fishman, co-executor of his estate. Dr. Fishberg worked f
 Billy Graham, a welterweight boxer noted for stylish and subtle moves that made him a difficult target in the ring, died Wednesday at his home in West Islip, L.I. He was 70 years old. His son, Billy Jr., said yesterday that the cause of death was cancer. In a professional ca
 Edward Yorio, a professor at the Fordham University Law School, died on Sunday at Mount Vernon Hospital in Mount Vernon, N.Y. He was 44 years old and lived in Mount Vernon. He died of lymphoma, his family said. Mr. Yorio taught 14 years at Fordham in the Bronx and four years
 Freddie Bartholomew, a Hollywood child star whose name became synonymous with the proper, curly-haired little English boys he played in "David Copperfield" and "Little Lord Fauntleroy," died yesterday at Sarasota Memorial Hospital in Sarasota, Fla. His age was variously reported as 69 and 7
 Joe Richards, a writer and a painter, died on Sunday at the Bay Pines Veterans Administration Hospital in St. Petersburg, Fla. He was 83 years old. He died of pneumonia, said his sister, Ruth Eisenstein of New York City. Mr. Richards wrote two books. "Tug of War," published 
 Saul Z. Cohen, a labor lawyer who was active in Jewish philanthropies, died yesterday at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital. He was 65 years old and lived in Larchmont, N.Y. He died of cancer, his daughter, Helen Cohen of San Francisco, said. Mr. Cohen, a native of Rochester, gr
 William G. Weart, the Philadelphia correspondent of The New York Times for 21 years until his retirement in 1966, died on Saturday at the Lehigh Valley Medical Center in Allentown, Pa. He was 85 years old. He died after a brief illness, his family said. Mr. Weart, the son of
 David V. Habif, a medical professor and an expert on cancer surgery, died on Jan. 17 at his home in Tenafly, N.J. He was 77 years old. Dr. Habif died of a heart attack, his family said. He graduated from Columbia College in 1936 and the College of Physicians and Surgeons in 
 Hanan J. Ayalti, author of many Yiddish and Hebrew works, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 81 years old and had homes in Manhattan and Chester, Conn. He died of lung cancer, said his son, Daniel Klenbort, of Atlanta. Mr. Ayalti, whose real name was Chonel Kle
 Martin L. Scheiner, an inventor of electronic medical devices, entrepreneur and supporter of social causes, died on Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 69 years old and lived in Pleasantville, N.Y. He died of leukemia, his family said. Mr. Scheiner founded El
 Doyle Northrup, a physicist who ran the secret United States system that detected the Soviet Union's first atomic bomb explosion and later advised the Geneva talks on controlling nuclear tests and weapons, died Dec. 15 at the Holmes Regional Nursing Center in Melbourne, Fla. He was 84 years
 Jose Ferrer, renowned as the cool, cerebral and idiosyncratic actor who won an Academy Award playing Cyrano de Bergerac, died yesterday at Doctors' Hospital in Coral Gables, Fla. A family spokesman gave his age as 80, although some reference works said he was 83. He was a resident o
 Ralph W. Pritchard, a retired national leader in the real estate business, died Jan. 16 at his home in La Grange, Ill. He was 72 years old and died of a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Pritchard was a past president of the La Grange Board of Realtors, Illinois Association
 The Rev. Dr. George E. Sweazey, a senior official of the Presbyterian Church and professor emeritus of homiletics at Princeton Theological Seminary, died on Thursday at the Monroe Village Health Care Center in Jamesburg, N.J., where he lived. He was 86 years old. He died of a stroke
 Skinner Chavez-Melo, an organist, conductor and composer who was music director at the St. Rose of Lima Roman Catholic Church in Manhattan, died on Saturday at New York Downtown Hospital. He was 47 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of spinal cancer, said his brother, Juan Fr
 Thomas J. Mackell, who resigned as the Queens District Attorney in 1973 after he was indicted on charges of hindering prosecution in a $4.4 million get-rich-quick scheme, died yesterday at his son's home in Douglaston Manor, Queens. He was 77 years old and lived in Douglaston Manor.        
 Allen D. Graves, a former Mobil Oil executive who helped organize the Kuwait National Petroleum Company, died on Friday at his home in Hilton Head, S.C. He was 76 years old. He died of bone cancer, his family said. Mr. Graves began his career with Mobil as a junior geologist
 Robert R. R. Brooks, an expert on labor economics who had been the dean and a professor at Williams College in Williamstown, Mass., died yesterday at the house of his sister-in-law, Ruth Brooks, in Nyack, N.Y. He was 86 years old and lived in Williamstown. Dean Brooks, who was a dep
 Anthony J. Pisani, a noted orthopedist who performed surgery on sports players as a team doctor for the Brooklyn Dodgers and the New York Giants, died Friday at his home in Boynton Beach, Fla. He was 80 years old. He died of heart failure, his family said. Dr. Pisani had bee
 Clark Tippet, a choreographer and principal dancer with American Ballet Theater, died on Tuesday at the Labette County Medical Center in Parsons, Kan. He was 37 years old. He died of AIDS, said Kelly Fowler, his sister. Mr. Tippet stood out onstage for his strong dramatic pr
 Irving Olan, a longtime leader in the retail and wholesale laundry industry in the New York metropolitan region, died on Jan. 23 at his home in Floral Park, Queens. He was 85 years old. He died of heart failure, his family said. Born in Russia, he came to the United States a
 Willie Dixon, who wrote blues standards and produced many classic blues albums, died of heart failure yesterday at St. Joseph Medical Center in Burbank, Calif. He was 76 years old and lived in southern California. As a songwriter, producer, arranger and bassist, Mr. Dixon was a towe
 Daniel Parker, a leader in business and government and the former head of his family's Parker Pen Company, died Tuesday at the Medical University of South Carolina in Charleston. He was 66 years old and lived in Wadmalaw Island, S.C. Mr. Parker died of complications during bone surg
 H. Gregg Lewis, a leader in modern labor economics, died last Saturday at his home in Chapel Hill, N.C., after a long illness. He was 77 years old. For 36 years beginning in 1939, Dr. Lewis taught at the University of Chicago, where he was long the director of the graduate program i
 Joseph Kestutis Valiunas, a longtime leader in the independence movement for the Baltic states, died on Saturday at Southampton Hospital in Southampton, L.I. He was 68 years old and was a resident of Southampton. He died of heart failure after a long illness, his family said.       
 Leonard Raver, the organist of the New York Philharmonic as well as a frequent recitalist and a champion of contemporary music, died on Wednesday at his home in Bayside, Queens. He was 65 years old. He died of AIDS, said George Cree, his companion. In the 1970's and 80's, Mr
 Nathan Skolnick, a former executive of the United Service Organizations, died on Sunday at his home in Miami Beach. He was 71 years old. He died of cardiac arrest, said his wife, Theodora Fire Skolnick. Born in Poland, Mr. Skolnick came to this country as a child. His family
