 Harold Steinberg, a former co-owner and executive of the Chelsea House publishing company, died on Friday at the St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 77 and had moved to the Kateri Residence nursing home in Manhattan from East Hampton, N.Y., three years ago. Che
 Lawrence Daniel Duke Sr., a retired state judge who as a young prosecutor fought for civil rights and against the Ku Klux Klan in rigidly segregationist Georgia, died on March 24 at Fayette Community Hospital in Fayetteville, Ga. He was 86 and lived in nearby Tyrone. Mr. Duke succes
 Max Mandell, who grew up with a mother who didn't love him and a grandfather who did, died on Saturday at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 90 and as the founder of the Mandell Nursery School and Kindergarten had devoted his life to making up for a mother's rejection by passing on
 Graenum Berger, an American who campaigned long and successfully for having Ethiopia's Falashas, who are also called Ethiopian Jews, transported to Israel, died on Wednesday at his home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 90. Mr. Berger, a social worker by profession, worked for years for 
 Harold Greenwald, a psychotherapist whose doctoral dissertation on the psychology of prostitutes evolved into a best-selling 1958 book, ''The Call Girl,'' and a Hollywood movie, ''Girl of the Night,'' died on Friday at his home in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 88. Though Dr. Greenwald
 Dr. Robert Flint Chandler Jr., a retired agronomist with the Rockefeller Foundation and a leader in the fight against hunger in Asia, died on March 23 at Waterman Hospital in Eustis, Fla. He was 91 and lived in nearby Mount Dora. Dr. Chandler joined the foundation staff in 1954 and 
 William Henry Dial, a lawyer, banker and civic leader in Florida who helped reinvent Orlando, a little town of citrus groves, as a vacation and convention mecca known the world over, died on March 23 at his home in Orlando. He was 91. Mr. Dial played a pivotal part in the 1960's in 
 Lucien Aigner, a pioneer in candid news photography in the 1930's whose best-known photographs include one of a rumpled Albert Einstein in front of a blackboard, died on Monday in a nursing home in Waltham, Mass. He was 97. In the 30's, photographers like Mr. Aigner, Erich Salomon, 
 Sheldon Bernard Kopp, a clinical psychologist and author of books designed to bolster the reader's self-esteem, died on Monday, his 70th birthday, at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He lived in nearby Silver Spring, Md. The cause was cardiac arrhythmia and pneumonia, h
 Edward A. Manfield, a world champion bridge player, died on Monday at his home in Philadelphia. He was 55. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Melanie. In 1986, Mr. Manfield was a member of an American team that won the Rosenblum Cup for the World Team Championship.
 George Rapee, one of the world's foremost bridge players, died Thursday at his home in Floral City, Fla. He was 83. Mr. Rapee was a winner of three world championship titles at the start of the modern series of competitions: in Bermuda in 1950, in Naples in 1951 and in Manhattan in 
 Lionel Bart, the composer, lyricist and playwright best known for the musical ''Oliver!,'' died on Saturday in Hammersmith Hospital in London, his longtime hometown. He was 68. The cause was cancer, his family said. Although Mr. Bart was frustrated in his efforts to repeat h
 Peter Pellegrino, who became so skystruck growing up in the Lindbergh era that he devoted his life to aviation and pursued his interest back to the very dawn of manned flight, died on March 26 at a hospital near his home in Newtown, Pa. He was 82 and had been a founder of the Balloon Federa
 Rear Adm. Rafael C. Benitez, who directed an extraordinary rescue operation when his submarine caught fire in one of the first American undersea spy missions of the cold war, died on March 6 at Memorial Hospital in Easton, Md. Admiral Benitez, who saw his submarine sink but lost only one of
 Early Wynn, the Hall of Fame right-hander who won 300 games over 23 seasons, dominating American League batters with a legendary meanness to match his talent, died Sunday night at an assisted-living center in Venice, Fla. He was 79. The cause was complications of a stroke, Wynn's bu
 Ram Hardasmal Hingorani, a civil engineer and former member of the Norwalk Common Council, died on Friday at his home in Norwalk, Conn., after a brief illness, his wife, Kamla, said. He was 64. Mr. Hingorani played an important role in the construction and rehabilitation of some of 
 William J. De Lancy, who ran the Republic Steel Corporation during some of its toughest times, died from complications of Parkinson's disease Friday at his home in Shaker Heights, Ohio, his family said. He was 82. Born in Chicago in 1916, Mr. De Lancy earned both bachelor's 
 Ambroise Roux, a prominent and influential figure in the French industrial and financial worlds who was a key adviser to Georges Pompidou, France's President from 1969 to 1974, died on Sunday in his home in Montfort-l'Amaury in north central France. He was 77. The cause was a heart 
 Giulio Einaudi, a doctor, author and founder of the Italian publishing house he built into a European wellspring of fine literature, intellectual thought and political theory, died on Monday at his country house near Rome. He was 87. A scholarly man, Mr. Einaudi was one of his count
 Michael Manuel, a director and writer who worked for a decade at the Metropolitan Opera, first as the company's executive stage manager and then as the co-general director of the Met's national touring company, died on Monday at the Hunterdon Medical Center in Flemington, N.J. He was 70 and
 Al Taylor, an artist whose quirky linear sculpture and drawings brought lyricism and charm to the austerities of Process Art, died on March 31 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 51 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Debbie T
 Arnold Francis Habig, who built a small Indiana woodworking shop into Kimball International Inc., died on March 29 at Memorial Hospital in Jasper, Ind., his birthplace and seat of the diversified billion-dollar company. He was 91. Growing up in Jasper as the third- oldest of 10 chil
 Lester A. Mount, a leading neurosurgeon associated with Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons and New York Presbyterian Hospital, died March 28 at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 89 and lived in Bronxville. Dr. Mount was a teacher and practitioner. A na
 Red Norvo, one of jazz's early vibraphonists and a gifted band leader whose groups greatly influenced American music and backed singers like Mildred Bailey, Billie Holiday and Frank Sinatra, died on Tuesday at a convalescent home in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 91. Mr. Norvo helped i
 Sol Hoffman, a longtime labor leader in the Northeast, died on March 27 at a friend's home in Jersey City after suffering a heart attack. He was 67. Mr. Hoffman, who lived in Teaneck, N.J., was a vice president of Unite, the Union of Needle Trades, Industrial and Textile Employees, 
 Edward Tripp, who served as editor in chief at Yale University Press for 13 years, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Franklin, N.C. He was 79. Among Mr. Tripp's accomplishments at Yale was the conception of the acclaimed ''Encyclopedia of New York City,'' which was edited by Kenn
 H. Robert Marschalk, who rose from a salesman for the Vicks Chemical Company to president and later vice chairman of its successor, the Richardson-Merrell Drug Company, died Sunday in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 83 and had prostate cancer, said a spokesman for Philip Morris, where Mr. Mars
 John M. Hartwell, an investment counselor and mutual fund manager, died April 2 in New York City, his wife, Sheila, said. He was 83. Until his retirement in 1996, Mr. Hartwell was the president of his own firm, J. M. Hartwell & Company, which managed private accounts and university 
 Robert Myhrum, an Emmy-nominated director who worked in children's television, died last Friday while vacationing on his boat in Boca Grande, Fla. He was 72 and had homes in Manhattan and Peru, Vt. The cause was a heart attack, his son Chris said. Born in Chicago, Mr. Myhrum
 Sam Shaw, a film producer and photojournalist famous for his photographs of Marilyn Monroe standing over a subway grate with her skirt billowing, died on Monday at a hospital in Westwood, N.J. He was 87 and lived in Tappan, N.Y. Born and reared on New York's Lower East Side, Mr. Sha
 Bob Peck, who appeared in the film ''Jurassic Park'' as well as on stage and television in Britain, died on Sunday in London. He was 53 and had cancer, The Associated Press reported. Mr. Peck, who lived in London, was much better known in Britain than in the United States, w
 Dr. Donald Elvin Savage, a paleontologist who tracked the evolution of the earliest anthropoid apes, died on  Monday at a hospice in Rossmoor, Calif. He was 81 and had recently moved there from his home in nearby Clayton. Much of his work focused on linking mammalian fossils to spec
 Emmett Colvin, a criminal defense lawyer from Texas, died on April 2 at his home in Fairfax, Va. He was 80 and had retired to Virginia from Dallas three years ago. The cause of death was cancer, his family said. Mr. Colvin was among the lawyers who represented Jack Ruby in a
 Howard S. Kessler, a Manhattan veterinarian and former president of the board of the Bide-a-Wee Association, died on Thursday at the Southampton Hospital in Southampton, N.Y. He was 56. The cause was cancer, said his mother, Gail Kessler of Atlantic City. Dr. Kessler, who li
 Ira J. Hechler, a financier and private investor known for friendly corporate buyouts in the 1980's, when hostile takeovers dominated the corporate landscape, died last Sunday at New York Hospital of complications resulting from a heart attack, a family representative said. He was 80.      
 Arthur M. Hettich, a retired senior executive for The New York Times Company's magazine group and a former president of Family Circle magazine, disappeared on Monday while swimming off Grand Turk Island in Turks and Caicos and is presumed drowned, according to his family. He was 73.        
 Brother John Sellers, a singer known for his raw and earthy rendition of blues, jazz and gospel music, died on March 27 at his home in Manhattan. He was 74. Mr. Sellers, who suffered from diabetes and high blood pressure, died in his sleep, said a spokeswoman for the Alvin Ailey Ame
 Dante C. Fabiani, retired president of the Crane Company, a plumbing fixtures maker, died March 20 at Waterbury Hospital in Waterbury, Conn., after a heart attack, according to his daughter, Kathryn Bartholomew. He was 81 and lived in Southbury, Conn. Mr. Fabiani grew up in Waterbur
 Peter Shaw Thacher, a former State Department official and a retired deputy executive director of the United Nations Environment Program, died on April 3 at a nursing home in Mystic, Conn. He was 72 and lived in Stonington Borough. The cause of death was a brain tumor, said his wife
 Lieut. Col. Leofric Boyle, a retired British Army officer who played an important role in saving from extinction the Arabian oryx, a type of antelope, died on March 21. He was 100. His death was reported on April 2 by The Times of London, which did not say where he died or where he 
 Daniel J. Sullivan, who was a judge in the Bronx for 20 years, died on Thursday at North Shore University Hospital-Cornell University Medical College in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 72 and lived in Seaford, N.Y. The cause was cardiopulmonary arrest, his son David said yesterday. J
 Raul Cardinal Silva Henriquez, who led Roman Catholicism in Chile for more than two decades, championing human rights and sharply criticizing Gen. Augusto Pinochet's military dictatorship, died on Friday in a home for retired priests in Santiago, Chile. He was 91. The cause was a he
 Jerold C. Hoffberger, who owned the Baltimore Orioles when they won five American League pennants and two World Series titles in the 1960's and 1970's, died last Friday at Sinai Hospital in Baltimore after collapsing during a business meeting. He had celebrated his 80th birthday two days ea
 Justo Rodriguez Santos, a Cuban poet who became disenchanted with Fidel Castro in the 1960's, exiled himself from his native land and became an advertising executive in the United States, died on Wednesday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 83. Dr. Rodrigue
 Proctor Patterson Jones, an author, photographer, publisher and lawyer who was a presence in San Francisco for over four decades, died there on April 2 at his home in the Pacific Heights section of the city. He was 83. Mr. Jones began his career writing legal texts. But he turned pr
 Rabbi Levi Ben Levy, the chief rabbi of the Israelite Board of Rabbis for the New York metropolitan area and the Western Hemisphere, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 64 and lived in the Queens Village section of Queens. The cause was leukemia, said h
 Boxcar Willie, a country singer and songwriter who fashioned himself as a hobo, died on Monday at his home in Branson, Mo. He was 67. The cause was leukemia, his family said. With an image built through performances and television commercials, Boxcar Willie turned a lifelong
 James D. McCawley, an internationally renowned linguist who sought wherever possible to combine in his work his three consuming passions -- language, music and ethnic food -- died on Saturday after collapsing on the campus of the University of Chicago, where he had taught for more than thre
 Thornton A. Wilson, a former chairman and chief executive of the Boeing Company, died on Saturday at his home in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 78. Mr. Wilson died in his sleep and was found by members of his family, said Peter B. Conte, a spokesman for Boeing. The cause of death remai
 Bill Wendell, a radio and television announcer whose crisp authoritative voice provided an ironic foil to entertainers from Ernie Kovacs to David Letterman, died yesterday at a hospice in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 75. The cause of death was complications from cancer, said one of his d
 Hyman R. Faine, a former executive of a union that represents performing artists, died last Thursday at a hospice in Los Angeles. He was 88, and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was complications from pneumonia, said Tom Tugend, a friend. Mr. Faine, who spent much of his care
 Jack H. McDonald, a former chairman and chief executive of the Imperial Corporation of America, a savings and loan company that long after his retirement fell victim to the nation's savings and loan crisis, died March 19 at Sharps Memorial Hospital in San Diego from complications of Parkins
 James Victor Blevins, who liked to be known as the Popcorn King after he began to market his own version of the snack to movie and grocery chains in the 1940's, died on Monday at his home in Nashville. He was 87. Mr. Blevins was originally from Birmingham, Ala., and worked for the F
 Robert V. Cox, a Chambersburg, Pa., newspaper reporter who won a Pulitzer Prize in 1967 for writing about the hunt for a sniper, died on Monday at a health care center in Chambersburg. He was 72 years old. The cause was complications from heart bypass surgery, said Jim Hook, a repor
 Anthony Newley, the versatile British entertainer who achieved international stardom in 1961 with the musical ''Stop the World -- I Want to Get Off,'' died on Wednesday at his home in Jensen Beach, Fla. He was 67. The cause was cancer, said his former wife, Dareth Newley Dunn.      
 Nicola Trussardi, who diversified and expanded his family's small-town glove business into a multimillion-dollar fashion house, died on Wednesday in Milan of injuries suffered in an automobile accident. He was 56. Mr. Trussardi died after undergoing brain surgery for injuries he rec
 Edmund M. Braun, a psychiatrist and labor advocate who worked to obtain better health care for the poor and Social Security coverage for physicians, died April 10 at his home in Manhattan. He was 81. The cause was a heart attack, his son Carl said. As an organizer and spokes
 Dr. Robert G. Sachs, a theoretical physicist who once served as director of the Argonne National Laboratory near Chicago, died on Wednesday at the University of Chicago Medical Center. He was 82 and lived in Chicago. The cause was complications from surgery, the university said.    
 S. Sidney Kahn, a venture capitalist and patron of the arts, died in Osaka, Japan, last Sunday while on a tour with the International Council of the Museum of Modern Art, an art study group. He was 62 and lived in New York and Locust Valley, N.Y. The cause was a heart attack, his wi
 Tom Patten, a British marine scientist and offshore engineer who played a key role in unlocking the gas and oil deposits beneath the North Sea, died on April 10 at a hospital in Edinburgh, where he lived. He was 73. The cause was cancer, his family said. In the early 1960's,
 Alexander (Skip) Spence, a pivotal figure in psychedelic San Francisco rock, died Friday at Dominican Hospital in Santa Cruz, Calif., where he had lived. The cause was advanced lung cancer, said his son Omar. He was 52 years old. Mr. Spence was a founding member of both Jefferson Ai
 Ben S. Stephansky, President John F. Kennedy's Ambassador to Bolivia at a complex time in its history, died on Saturday at his home in Washington. He was 85. Dr. Stephansky, whose Ph.D. was in economics from the University of Wisconsin, was labor attache at the United States Embassy
 Alexander (Skip) Spence, a pivotal figure in psychedelic San Francisco rock, died on Friday at Dominican Hospital in Santa Cruz, Calif., where he lived. The cause was lung cancer, said his son Omar. He was 52. Mr. Spence was a founding member of Jefferson Airplane and Moby Grape. As
 David B. McCall and Joan Mills McCall, who excelled separately in the worlds of advertising, philanthropy and the arts and together as fiercely dedicated advocates for the world's displaced people, died in a car accident Sunday while on an aid mission in Albania. Mr. McCall was 71. 
 Raghubir Singh, who photographed the pulsating expanse of India in all its varied shades and hues, died on Sunday in Manhattan, where he lived. He was 58. He died after collapsing, apparently from a heart attack, said his companion, Gwen Darien. A retrospective exhibition of
 Walter William Straley, who, as an American Telephone and Telegraph vice president for public relations in New York City, was a member of the city's Board of Education in the late 1960's, died in Seattle on Wednesday. Mr. Straley, who was 86, had moved to Seattle with his wife in 1976 and w
 Charlie Whittingham, the Hall of Fame horse trainer and the dean of racing on the West Coast for most of the last half-century, died yesterday in Pasadena, Calif. He was 86. Whittingham had leukemia. An ambulance took him to the hospital yesterday from his home in Sierra Madre, his 
 Wenceslao Moreno, who started his career as an unsuccessful bullfighter in Spain and then became Senor Wences, a gifted ventriloquist who was able to transform his thumb and forefinger into a convincing dummy that endeared itself to millions of American television viewers in the 1950's and 
 Willi Stoph, a two-time Prime Minister of East Germany, who reluctantly helped reconcile the two Germanys and held office until days before the Berlin wall fell in 1989, died on April 13 in Berlin. He was 84. His death was reported in Berlin on Monday by the Party of Democratic Soci
 Charles (Buddy) Rogers, the handsome leading man and band leader who starred in ''Wings'' (1927), the first film to win an Academy Award, and who later married Mary Pickford, ''America's Sweetheart,'' died on Wednesday at his home in Rancho Mirage, Calif. Mr. Rogers was 94. Six feet
 Ralph J. Perk, the hard-luck Mayor of Cleveland whose misfortunes included accidentally setting his own hair on fire at a ceremonial appearance, died on Wednesday at the Cleveland Clinic Hospice unit of the Corinthian Skilled Nursing Center in Westlake, Ohio. He was 85. Mr. Perk, a 
 Alexander Alexay, a pianist who coached and accompanied opera singers and recitalists, and who worked for many years with the composer Sigmund Romberg, died on Tuesday in Manhattan, where he lived. He was 97. Mr. Alexay was born in Ottawa in 1901. By the time he was 15, he was earni
 Harold E. Samuel, a former music librarian and professor at the Yale University School of Music, died after a long illness on Tuesday at his home in Hamden, Conn. He was 75. He died of congestive heart failure, said his son Hector. Though Mr. Samuel was a well-regarded profe
 Munir Ahmad Khan, an administrator of Pakistan's nuclear energy programs when Pakistan was developing a nuclear weapon, died on Thursday in Vienna of complications after heart surgery. He was 72. Mr. Khan was not a scientist but frequently spoke for Pakistan's civilian and military 
 Sir Laurence Kirwan, an archeologist and the former director of the British Royal Geographical Society, and a man for whom harsh and forbidding deserts, mountaintops and polar ice caps were irresistible attractions, died April 16 in a hospice in London. He was 91. Sir Laurence was n
 Thomas H. Davis, the founder of Piedmont Aviation, which grew to employ more than 20,000 people before it was acquired by USAir Group, died on Thursday at a hospital in Winston-Salem, N.C. He was 81 and lived in Winston-Salem. Mr. Davis was known for walking through his company's re
 Judge Bernard Newman of the United States Court of International Trade, who as a former chairman of the New York County Republican Party was the counterpart and rival  of Tammany Hall's Carmine De Sapio, died Thursday at St. Vincent's Hospital. A Manhattan resident, he was 91 and still serv
 Donald John Bruckmann, a New York investment banker who was the board chairman of the Animal Medical Center, a trustee and former chairman of the New York Botanical Garden and an enthusiastic gardener, sailor and conservationist, died Wednesday at his home on Manhattan's Upper East Side. He
 Norman Williams, a British lawyer best known as a prolific writer about stamps and stamp collecting, died on April 9 in London. He was 85. Mr. Williams was best known to American collectors as the co-author with his brother Maurice of ''Fundamentals of Philately,'' an exhaustive stu
 Robert James Johnston, a naval engineer who became an innovative designer of hydrofoils and other high-speed watercraft, died on April 16 at his home in Daytona Beach, Fla. He was 80. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Johnston focused on improving hydrofoils, which 
 William H. Armstrong, a teacher and writer best known for his 1969 children's novel ''Sounder,'' died on April 11 at his home in Kent, Conn. He was 87. Set among a community of black sharecroppers, ''Sounder'' told the story of a loyal dog, his ill-fated master and the boy who loved
 Don McGuire, a writer, director and producer in Hollywood, died on  April 13 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 80. Mr. McGuire was credited with adapting Howard Breslin's story ''Bad Time at Hondo'' into what became the 1955 movie ''Bad Day at Black Rock,'' directed by John Sturges
 Donald W. Pritchard, an oceanographer and expert on the Long Island Sound and the Chesapeake Bay, died on Friday at the University of Maryland Hospital in Baltimore. He was 76 and lived in Severna Park, Md. The cause of death was a stroke, said his daughter Jo Anne Mitchell.        
 Jim Copp, a creator of children's records with loony tunes, literate lyrics, occasional dark themes and wacky characters like the Dog That Went to Yale, died at Midway Hospital in Los Angeles on April 7. He was 85. Between 1958 and 1971, Mr. Copp and his partner, Ed Brown, composed,
 Julian David Cole, a professor at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, N.Y., and an internationally acknowledged expert on the applied-mathematics technique known as perturbation, died April 17 at Albany Medical Center Hospital. He was 74 and lived in Loudonville, N.Y. The caus
 Lord Killanin, the president of the International Olympic Committee from 1972 to 1980, a tumultuous period when the Olympic movement was buffeted by political boycotts, died yesterday at his home in Dublin. He was 84. Lord Killanin, an Irish peer who had been a journalist, film prod
 Stewart R. Macdonald, a former executive of the American Newspaper Publishers Association who started its foundation and helped it raise millions of dollars for education, died on April 18 in the Hospice of Northern Virginia in Leesburg. He was 74. The cause was non-Hodgkins lymphom
 Stewart Warner Pach, who ran the Gillette Company's razor business in the 1960's, died April 14 at New England Baptist Hospital in Boston following a heart attack, according to his son, Peter B. Pach. He was 79. Mr. Pach was born in Worcester, Mass., and reared in Bronxville, N.Y. H
 Frank J. Pasquerilla, 72, a builder and philanthropist who started as a state highway clerk and became one of the richest men in Pennsylvania, died last Wednesday in a Johnstown, Pa., hospital. He made a fortune in shopping malls, department stores and hotels and gave away millions to suppo
 Roman L. Hruska, who served 22 years as a conservative Republican senator from Nebraska, died on Sunday at Clarkson Hospital in Omaha. He was 94 and had wielded considerable influence on the Judiciary Committee. Senator Hruska was the ranking minority member of the Senate Judiciary 
 Al Hirt, the portly Dixieland jazz trumpeter who was a symbol of the exuberant laissez-faire way of life of New Orleans, died yesterday at home in New Orleans. He was 76. Mr. Hirt had been hospitalized until last week at East Jefferson General Hospital in Metairie, La., with liver a
 Arbit Blatas, a Lithuanian-born artist whose career bridged New York, Venice and the Paris of Picasso, Matisse, Braque, Dufy, Bonnard, Vlaminck, Utrillo, Soutine and Cocteau -- all of whom he rendered in paint, clay or bronze -- died yesterday at his studio home in Manhattan. He was 90.    
 Cao Huoxing, a Chinese farmer's son who wrote a Communist song that has become familiar to hundreds of millions of Chinese, died on April 16 in Tianjin, in northern China, the official New China News Agency reported. He was 75 and had been chairman of the Tianjin Municipal Bureau of
 Herbert Young, who was decorated by the French Government in February for his service in World War I, died on Thursday at his home in Harlem. He would have turned 113 next week. Mr. Young, a retired mechanic, was considered the oldest living New Yorker by the city's Department for t
 Roger Troutman, a renowned funk-music innovator who recorded with his brothers in the band Zapp in the early 80's, died on Sunday at the Good Samaritan Hospital and Health Center in Dayton, Ohio. He was 47 and lived in Dayton. Mr. Troutman was shot several times in the torso on Sund
 Andrew J. Loyla, a flutist who played in the New York City Ballet Orchestra for nearly 30 years and was a member of the executive board of Local 802 of the American Federation of Musicians, died on  April 17 at St. Agnes Hospital in White Plains. He was 69 and lived in Ossining, N.Y.       
 Charles H. Pillard, the strong-willed president of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers for two decades, died on Monday in a hospital in Buffalo. He was 80 and had lived in Orchard Park, N.Y., a suburb of Buffalo, since 1988. The cause was a heart attack, The Associat
 Max Hutchinson, an art dealer and gallery owner who was instrumental in the sale of Jackson Pollock's large, late drip painting ''Blue Poles,'' to the National Gallery of Australia in Canberra, died on Friday at Community General Hospital of Sullivan County in Harris, N.Y. He was 73 and had
 Arthur L. Schawlow, co-winner of the 1981 Nobel Prize in Physics for his role in the development of lasers, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 77 and lived in Palo Alto. The cause was congestive heart failure resulting from leukemia, said a spokesman at Stan
 Dominick L. DiCarlo, a Federal judge and a former New York State Assemblyman from Brooklyn, died on Tuesday after suffering a heart attack while exercising at a gym at the Federal court complex in Manhattan. He was 71. Mr. DiCarlo, a conservative Republican who was also an assistant
 Rolf W. Landauer, who helped solidify the slippery concept of information and bring it firmly into the mainstream of physics, died on Tuesday at his home in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y. He was 72. He died of brain cancer, his family said. ''Information is inevitably physical,'' th
 Rory Calhoun, a heartthrob-handsome actor who starred in scores of cowboy movies and the television series ''The Texan,'' died Wednesday at St. Joseph's Medical Center in Burbank, Calif. He was 76. Mr. Calhoun, who lived in Morongo Valley, Calif, was being treated at the hospital fo
