 Dr. Eugene C. Klein, a founding member of the Health Insurance Plan of Greater New York, died on Thursday at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 82 and lived in Manhattan. He died of emphysema, his son said. Dr. Klein was one of the first doctors to join the Health Insur
 Dwain Tedford, a booker for jazz clubs, died on Sunday in Lubbock, Tex. He was 54 years old. Mr. Tedford died of a brain tumor, his business partner, John Condon, said. Mr. Tedford grew up in Texas, where his interest in jazz was awakened by hearing radio broadcasts from Chi
 George A. Roeper, an educator and founder of the Roeper City and Country School in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., died Aug. 24 in Oakland, Calif. He was 81 and lived in Oakland. Mr. Roeper died of pneumonia, said Loiro Zinser, a spokesman for the school. An authority on the educat
 Robert N. Kreidler, the president of the Charles A. Dana Foundation, died on Sunday at New York Hospital. He was 62 years old and lived in Manhattan and on Long Island. He died after a long illness, said Stephen A. Foster, the vice president of the foundation, but he did not elabora
 Sam Stickler, the production supervisor for "Les Miserables" and other Broadway shows, died on Monday in Albany. He was 37 years old and lived in Oak Hill, N.Y. He died of AIDS, said Marc Thibodeau, a spokesman for "Les Miserables." Mr. Stickler worked with the producer Came
 Chief Justice Charles L. Weltner of the Georgia Supreme Court, who as a young Congressman a quarter-century ago sacrificed a promising political career by defying his state's segregationist Democratic leadership, died Monday at his home in Atlanta. He was 64 years old. His family sa
 Dr. Irving Philips, an educator in child psychiatry and president of the International Association for Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, died on Saturday at his home in San Francisco. He was 70 years old. He died of cancer of the bile duct, said his daughter, Laura, of Ithaca, N.Y.  
 Edmund H. Kerr, a senior partner in the international law firm of Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen & Hamilton, died yesterday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 67 years old. He died of cancer, his family said. Mr. Kerr, a native of Pittsburgh, saw wartime service with the Army i
 Michael A. Braun, a prominent lawyer who defended accused war criminals during the American military's postwar occupation of Japan, died on Thursday in Tokyo. He was 79 years old and lived in Tokyo. He died of cancer, said Hugh J. Freund, a family spokesman, adding that he had no fu
 Morris Carnovsky, a pipe-smoking character actor who endured the blacklist of the 1950's to triumph in Shakespeare, died yesterday at his home in Easton, Conn. He was 94 years old. His family said he died of natural causes. In a career that lasted more than 60 years, he appe
 Ernest Albin Jones, for many years one of the country's foremost advertising executives, died on Monday at St. Joseph Mercy Hospital in Pontiac, Mich. He was 77 years old and lived in another Detroit suburb, Bloomfield Hills. He died of complications of a stroke, said the Vasu, Rodg
 Felix Guattari, a  psychoanalyst and philosopher who influenced the post-1968 generation of French intellectuals, died on Saturday at La Borde, the clinic 100 miles south of Paris where he had worked for four decades. He was 62 years old. He died of a heart attack, his publisher sai
 Piotr Jaroszewicz, a former Prime Minister of Poland, and his wife were found dead in their home in a suburb of Warsaw, Polish officials said yesterday, describing the deaths as homicides. Mr. Jaroszewicz was 82 years old; the age of his wife, Alicja Solska, could not be learned yesterday. 
 Leonard Withington Mayo, an educator who spent a lifetime helping people with disabilities and who was an adviser on their needs to five Presidents, died on Tuesday at his home in Chagrin Falls, Ohio, a suburb of Cleveland. He died in his sleep three days before his 93d birthday, sa
 Melvin L. Rosen, a prominent battler against AIDS and the immediate past chairman of Beth Simchat Torah synagogue in Manhattan, died on Monday at the New York University Medical Center. He was 42 years old and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Rosen died from H.I.V.-related lung cancer, said 
 Dr. Norman N. Frenkiel, an authority on geriatrics, died on Saturday at the Hebrew Home at Riverdale in the Bronx. He was 87 years old and had lived at the home since 1989. Dr. Frenkiel died of heart and lung failure, said Angela Sullivan, a spokeswoman for the home. Dr. Fre
 Rabbi Eliezer Berkovits, an authority on Jewish theology and philosophy, died Aug. 20 at his home in Jerusalem. He was 84 years old and had lived in Jerusalem since 1973. Rabbi Berkovits died of heart failure, said a niece, Leah Berkovits. Born in Oradea, Transylvania, in 19
 The Rev. Alger L. Adams, a retired Episcopal clergyman and former editor and publisher of The Westchester County Press, died on Wednesday at his home in Hastings-on-Hudson. He was 82 years old. His family said he died of heart failure. Father Adams, a native of Omaha, gradua
 Andrew Fiske, a prominent Long Island figure, died on Sunday at his home on Shelter Island. He was 80 years old. Mr. Fiske died after a prolonged illness, said Andrew Tansey, a family spokesman. Mr. Fiske was a 13th-generation descendant of Nathaniel Sylvester, who settled S
 Donald Dryfoos, a rare-book collector and former stockbroker, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 78. Mr. Dryfoos had suffered from a degenerative heart condition and died of heart failure, said a nephew, Jeffrey Dryfoos. Mr. Dryfoos was a brother of Orvil E. Dry
 Peter Bernard Sheridan, a mathematical logician and I.B.M. researcher in computer sciences for the last 40 years, died Aug. 25 at Greenwich Hospital in Greenwich, Conn. He was 66 years old and lived in Pleasantville, N.Y. He died of pancreatic cancer after a brief illness, said Pegg
 Joseph L. Rauh Jr., for decades one of the nation's leading champions of civil rights and liberal causes, died Thursday night at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 81 years old. Americans for Democratic Action, which Mr. Rauh helped found 45 years ago, said he died soon 
 Joshua Morrison, a retired New York businessman with many charitable interests, died on Wednesday at his home in Larchmont, N.Y. He was 91 years old. His family said he died of heart failure. Mr. Morrison was born in Ukraine and was brought to this country as a child. He gra
 Louis J. Brindisi Jr., a noted authority on executive-pay practices and corporate performance, died on Sunday at his home in Secaucus, N.J. He was 62 years old. He died of a heart attack, Gary Hourihan, president of Strategic Compensation Associates, a management consulting firm, sa
 Dr. William J. Harrington, an internationally known blood specialist who made major discoveries about the basic mechanisms of blood disorders from experiments he performed on himself, died yesterday at his home in Miami. He was 68 years old. He died while repairing a generator outsi
 Harold Curtis Fleming, a white Southerner who became an early leader in the struggle for racial justice in a "new South," died Friday at his home in Washington. He was 70 years old. Friends said he died suddenly after a brief illness. As executive director of the Southern Re
 Jack Ossofsky, whose leadership of an organization for older Americans let him play a role in shaping Government policy on the aging, died on Friday at his home in East Boothbay, Me., where he lived in retirement. He was 66 years old. His family said he died of a brain tumor.       
 Dr. William J. Harrington, an internationally known blood specialist who made major discoveries about the basic mechanisms of blood disorders from experiments he performed on himself, died yesterday at his home in Miami. He was 68 years old. He died while repairing a generator outsi
 Albert Rees, a labor economist who was the chief inflation monitor in the Ford Administration, provost of Princeton University and president of the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, died on Saturday at the Medical Center in Princeton, N.J. He was 71 years old. He died of cancer that had s
 Harold Curtis Fleming, a white Southerner who became an early leader in the struggle for racial justice in a "new South," died Friday at his home in Washington. He was 70 years old. Friends said he died suddenly after a brief illness. As executive director of the Southern Re
 Henry Ephron, a playwright, screenwriter and producer whose work spanned three decades, died yesterday at the Motion Picture Hospital in Los Angeles. He was 81 years old and lived in Los Angeles. He died of natural causes, said his daughter Nora Ephron, the writer. Mr. Ephro
 Howard Davis, founder and coach of the Harlem Wizards comedy basketball team, died on Thursday at Palisades General Hospital, in North Bergen, N.J. He was 73 years old and lived in North Bergen. Mr. Davis died of a heart attack, said a son, Todd. A native of Queens, Mr. Davi
 James Oliver Brown, a prominent literary agent from the 1940's to the 1980's, died Sept. 1 at the home of a daughter in Saratoga Springs, N.Y. He was 82 years old and had lived in Manhattan since 1936. Mr. Brown died after a long bout with cancer, said his son, James Oliver Brown Jr
 Lewis W. Gillenson, a former president of Dodd, Mead & Company publishers and a prominent figure in book and magazine publishing for 45 years, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 74 years old and also lived in Ghent, N.Y. Mr. Gillenson died of cancer, said his brother, I
 Charles O. Kates, a writer and magazine publisher, died on Sunday at the Rosary Hill hospice in Hawthorne, N.Y. He was 80 years old and lived in Hastings-on-Hudson. He died of pancreatic cancer, his family said. At the time of his death, Mr. Kates was publisher and chief exe
 Timothy Egan Lenahan, an architect who had practiced with Robert A. M. Stern, died yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 34 years old and lived in Greenwich Village. He died of complications from AIDS, his family said. Mr. Lenahan was bo
 Charles de Bretteville, a leading businessman who became chairman of the Bank of California, died Friday at Community Hospital in Monterey, Calif. He was 79 years old and lived in nearby Pebble Beach. Charles Locke de Bretteville, one of two sons, said the cause of death was a heart
 Jacob Bean, a connoisseur of Italian and French drawings who was the curator of drawings at the Metropolitan Museum of Art for 31 years, died yesterday at New York Hospital. He was 68 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of cancer of the esophagus, said his sister, Mary East of
 Kim Chung Yul, a former Prime Minister of South Korea who helped prepare the country for its first general elections, died on Monday. He was 75 years old and lived in Seoul. Mr. Kim died after a lengthy illness, an announcement by the South Korean Embassy said. The immediate cause o
 Quentin N. Burdick, who had represented North Dakota in the United States Senate for the last 32 years, died yesterday at St. Luke's Hospital in Fargo, his hometown. He was 84 years old. His Washington office said Senator Burdick, who had been afflicted with heart disease for months
 Timothy Egan Lenahan, an architect who had practiced with Robert A. M. Stern, died on Monday at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 34 years old and lived in Greenwich Village. He died of complications from AIDS, his family said. Mr. Lenahan was bo
 Timothy J. Adams, a retired journalist, died Sunday at his home in the Chevy Chase section of Washington. He was 64 years old. He died of cancer, his family said. In 1968 Mr. Adams was named managing editor of The Washington Monthly at its founding by Charles G. Peters. Seve
 David Hyatt, a former president of the National Conference of Christians and Jews, died Tuesday at Mount Zion Hospital in San Francisco, his hometown. He was 76 years old. He died of complications of throat cancer, said his wife, Lillian. Mr. Hyatt, who as a youth had witnes
 Donald M. Sterzin, creative director of Carlson & Partners Advertising, died on Aug. 30 at New York Hospital. He was 42 years old and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Sterzin died of pulmonary failure, a spokeswoman for the family, Dolores Barrett, said. Mr. Sterzin, an executive vic
 Dr. Hallowell Davis, a pioneer in the physiology of hearing and a former director of research at the Central Institute for the Deaf in St. Louis, died on Aug. 22 at the Bethesda Dalworth Home in St. Louis. He was 96 years old and until recently had lived in University City, Mo. At H
 Irving Allen Lee, a Broadway and television actor and director, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 43 years old. He died of AIDS-related lymphoma, said his companion, John Uehlein. Mr. Lee appeared in several musicals, including "Ride the Winds," "Rock-a-Bye H
 Raymond Thomas Wellington Jr., an authority on wines who played a major role in food and wine education in New York City and beyond, died Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 39 years old. Mr. Wellington died from complications related to AIDS, his companion, Ed McCarthy, said. 
 William Barrett, one of the foremost American interpreters of the philosophy of existentialism and a leading chronicler of the post-World War II generation of New York intellectuals, died on Tuesday at the Tarrytown Hall Nursing Home in Tarrytown, N.Y. He was 78 years old. He died o
 Alistair Butler, a former member of the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater and a performer with other modern-dance troupes, died on Monday at Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Center. He was 42 years old and lived in New York City. He died of AIDS-related illness, said Sylvia Waters, the artis
 David Hyatt, a former president of the National Conference of Christians and Jews, died on Tuesday at Mount Zion Hospital in San Francisco, his hometown. He was 76 years old. He died of complications of throat cancer, his wife, Lillian, said. Mr. Hyatt, who as a youth had wi
 Fritz Leiber Jr., an award-winning science-fiction and fantasy writer, died last Saturday at California Pacific Medical Center in San Francisco. He was 81 years old and lived in San Francisco. He died of a stroke, said his wife, Margo. Mr. Leiber was best known for his sword
 Reginald L. Auchincloss Jr., a former investment counselor and a trustee of the Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 72 years old. Mr. Auchincloss, who had been ill for years, died of Parkinson's disease, said his wife, Frances. 
 Raymond P. Hickok, who headed a family business that made men's belts and jewelry and helped develop automobile seat belts, died on Wednesday at Strong Memorial Hospital in Rochester. He was 74 years old and lived in nearby Pittsford. He died of heart failure, his family said.      
 Prof. Sidney Forman, an authority on the history of the United States Army, died on Monday at the home of his son in Spring Valley, N.Y. He was 77 and lived in Fort Montgomery, N.Y. Professor Forman died of cancer, said his son, Charles R. Forman. Dr. Forman was the head lib
 Dr. Thomas E. Robinson, the former president of Glassboro State College and unsuspecting host of an unsuspected East-West summit meeting in rural southern New Jersey in 1967, died on Wednesday at St. Mary's Hospital in Langhorne, Pa. He was 87 years old and lived in Holland, Pa. He 
 William R. Leisher, a paintings conservator and the executive director of the department of conservation at the Art Institute of Chicago, died on Wednesday at his home in Evanston, Ill. He was 51 years old. He died of cancer, said Eileen Harakal, the executive director of public aff
 Douglas D. Couser, a retired farmer and former town and county official in Orange County, died on Sept. 3 at the Arden Hill Hospital in Goshen, N.Y. He was 84 years old and lived in nearby Pine Bush. He died of pneumonia, his family said. Mr. Couser served for 11 years as th
 Dr. George Crile Jr., the Cleveland surgeon who angered the medical establishment by insisting that some radical procedures for breast cancer and other diseases met the surgeon's needs rather than the patient's, died yesterday at the Cleveland Clinic Foundation. He was 84 years old and live
 Harold Louis Humes, a novelist and a co-founder of the literary journal The Paris Review, died on Thursday at St. Rose's Home in Manhattan. He was 66 years old and lived in Cambridge, Mass. Mr. Humes died of cancer, said his daughter Alison, of Manhattan. Mr. Humes was born 
 Dr. John Henry Grossman, a retired gynecologist in Bridgeport, Conn., and an enthusiast of the magical arts, died on Tuesday at the Yale New Haven Hospital. He was 78 years old and lived in Stratford. A cause of death was unavailable. Dr. Grossman, a native of Rochester, rec
 Anthony Perkins, the actor who starred in dozens of films and plays but was best known for his role as Norman Bates, the eerily soft-spoken psychopath in Alfred Hitchcock's classic thriller "Pyscho," died yesterday at his home in Hollywood. He was 60 years old. Mr. Perkins died of c
 Bradford K. Bachrach, the retired president of Bachrach Photographers, the noted portrait studio chain, died on Thursday at his home in Wellesley, Mass. He was 81 years old. He died in his sleep, apparently of natural causes, his family said. The Bachrach firm is best known 
 Christopher H. Klein, a computer consultant, died in a hang-gliding accident in San Jose, Calif., on Monday. He was 33 years old and lived in Palo Alto, Calif. He died instantly of multiple head and internal injuries, his family said. For several years Mr. Klein worked for S
 Frank E. McKinney Jr., the former Indiana University swimming champion who won an Olympic gold medal and shared six world backstroke records in the 1950's and 60's before becoming a leading banker in Indiana, was killed Friday in the collision of two small planes near Indianapolis. 
 Louis M. Fribourg, a former New York City judge and author on real-estate law, died on Thursday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 84 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of congestive heart failure, his family said. In 1973 Mr. Fribourg was appointed a Civil C
 Anthony Perkins, the actor who starred in dozens of films and plays but was best known for his role as Norman Bates, the eerily soft-spoken psychopath in Alfred Hitchcock's classic thriller "Psycho," died on Saturday afternoon at his home in Hollywood. He was 60 years old. Mr. Perki
 Bradford K. Bachrach, the retired president of Bachrach Photographers, the portrait studio chain, died on Thursday at his home in Wellesley, Mass. He was 81 years old. He died in his sleep, apparently of natural causes, his family said. The Bachrach firm is best known for ha
 Frank E. McKinney Jr., the former Indiana University swimming champion who won an Olympic gold medal and shared six world backstroke records in the 1950's and 60's before becoming a leading banker in Indiana, was killed Friday in the collision of two small planes near Indianapolis. 
 Richard H. Steinman, the chief financial officer of The New York Times Women's Magazines Division, died on Saturday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 47 years old and lived in Manhattan and East Hampton, L.I. He died of cancer, his family said. Mr. Steinman 
 Buddy Barnes, a singer and pianist who was the singer Mabel Mercer's accompanist and musical director for seven years, died on Friday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 52 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of AIDS, his family said. Mr. Barnes, who was a popular cabare
 Kenneth L. Kendrick, a former art director of The New York Times Magazine, died on Saturday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 43 years old and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Kendrick died of complications of AIDS, said Owen Hartley, his companion. Mr. Ken
 Leon J. Davis, a Russian immigrant who founded a small New York union of drugstore clerks in Depression-era 1932 and built it into America's largest labor organization of health care workers, died yesterday at Long Island Jewish Medical Center. He was 85 years old and lived in Queens and in
 Lou Jacobs, the Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus's master clown who performed before millions for six decades, died on Sunday in Sarasota Memorial Hospital in Sarasota, Fla. He was 89 years old and lived in Sarasota. He died of heart failure, said a circus spokesman, Rod
 Representative Ted Weiss, a Manhattan Democrat who for more than 15 years was one of the most outspoken advocates of liberal policies in Congress, died yesterday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 64 years old and lived in Manhattan and Washington. He died 
 William R. Reid Jr., a former chief executive of the Torrington Company, a Connecticut manufacturer, died on Sunday at his home in Litchfield, Conn. He was 74 years old. Mr. Reid, who also lived in Key Largo, Fla., died of cancer, said Bradford Rowe, director of the Rowe Funeral Hom
 Dr. Alexander Marble, an expert on diabetes and president emeritus of the Joslin Diabetes Center in Boston, died Sunday at Carlton Willard Village, a retirement community in Bedford, Mass. A former resident of Brookline, Mass., he was 90 years old. He died after a long illness, the 
 Dr. Julius W. Bell, an ear, nose and throat specialist who practiced and taught in Manhattan for 56 years, died on Sept. 8 at Memorial Hospital in Hollywood, Fla. He was 91 years old and had moved to Hollywood from Manhattan when he retired eight years ago. He died after a brief ill
 Edward J. Grenier, a lawyer who practiced in New York City for more than 50 years, died on Sept. 11 at his home. He was 87 years old. His son, Edward J. Grenier Jr., gave no specific cause of death. Mr. Grenier, a Manhattan resident since 1927, was in private practice for ma
 Garret G. Ackerson Jr., a retired career Foreign Service officer who headed United States legations and embassies in Eastern Europe during some of the most difficult periods of the cold war, died Monday at his home in Lexington, Mass. He was 88 years old. Mr. Ackerson, who had long 
 Harry F. Gaugh, a professor of art at Skidmore College and a specialist in the Abstract Expressionist period, died on Saturday at Glens Falls Hospital in Glens Falls, N.Y. He was 53 years old and lived in Saratoga Springs, N.Y. He died of lymphoma, said Robert Kimmerle, the director
 Hideo Gosha, a film director known for his samurai movies, died on Aug. 30 at a hospital in Kyoto, Japan. He was 63 years old. He had had dyspnea, a breathing disorder, said a spokesman for the World Artists Cinema Corporation, which released two of his films on home video. 
 William L. Dill, a lawyer and a former mayor of Montclair, N.J., died on Monday at his home in Upper Montclair, N.J. He was 89 years old. No cause of death was given. Mr. Dill served two terms as Mayor of Montclair from 1953 to 1960. He was previously chairman of the town's 
 Budd Buszek, a former advertising executive and president of the Traffic Audit Bureau, died on Sept. 10 at his home in Margaretville, N.Y. He was 76. Mr. Buszek died from complications related to cancer, said Pamela Richards, a spokeswoman for the family. Mr. Buszek joined t
 Norman Newton, a landscape architect who redesigned the setting for the Statue of Liberty in 1937, died on Saturday at Mount Auburn Hospital in Cambridge, Mass. He was 94 years old and lived in Cambridge. He died of septicemia, a blood infection, said his wife, the former Lyyli Lams
 Paul Martin, an enduring Liberal Party politician who for decades served in Canadian Cabinets and represented Ottawa at international gatherings, died on Monday at the Hotel Dieu Hospital in Windsor, Ontario. He was 89 years old. Mr. Martin, a resident of Windsor, suffered a broken 
 Russell D. Niles, a former chancellor of New York University and a professor of law, died on Tuesday at his home in San Francisco. He was 90 years old. The exact cause of his death had not been determined, said Thomas Debley, a spokesman for the Hastings College of Law at the Univer
 Edward P. Henderson, a retired curator at the Smithsonian Institution who was a leading authority on meteorites and precious metals, died Sept. 12 at Sibley Hospital in Washington. He was 93 years old and lived in Washington. Mr. Henderson died of complications from a heart attack, 
 Ernest M. Wuliger, who expanded his family's mattress company into the nation's largest manufacturer of bedding, died on Sept. 5 at his home in Cleveland. He was 71 years old. He died of brain cancer, his family said. For nearly 40 years Mr. Wuliger headed the Ohio Mattress 
 Eugene H. Zagat, a retired New York real-estate executive, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82 years old. Mr. Zagat died of throat cancer, said his son, Eugene H. Zagat Jr., a publisher of the Zagat New York City Restaurant Survey. Mr. Zagat, a native of Manha
 James W. Glanville, a Wall Street investment banker and general partner in the firm of Lazard Freres & Company, died on Wednesday at Methodist Hospital in Houston. A former resident of Darien, Conn., he was 69 years old and lived in Houston. He died of injuries suffered in a recent 
 John Beaufort, the longtime theater critic for The Christian Science Monitor, died on Wednesday at High Ridge House, a sanitarium in Riverdale, the Bronx. He was 79 years old and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Beaufort died after a brief illness, said his wife, Francesca. Mr. Beauf
 Morris Ratner, a retired real-estate executive and a philanthropist, died on Wednesday at the Englewood Hospital in Englewood, N.J. He was 86 years old and lived in Tenafly, N.J., and Hollywood, Fla. He died of heart failure, his family said. Born on the Lower East Side of M
 Paul Taylor, an Australian art critic, journalist and editor known for his championing of popular culture and his critical profiles of art world personalities, died yesterday at the Royal Melbourne Hospital in Melbourne, Australia. He was 35 years old and had lived in Manhattan from 1984 un
 Peter Christian Schmeisser, a freelance journalist, died Aug. 10 at his home in Potomac, Md. He was 27 years old. Mr. Schmeisser died of complications from the H.I.V. virus, which he received during a blood transfusion related to his hemophilia, said Kim Herron, a family friend.    
 Robert Briggs, a bass who won the Luciano Pavarotti International Vocal Competition in 1985, died on Tuesday at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 39 years old and lived in New York City. He died of AIDS, his family said. Mr. Briggs took part in Mr. Pavarotti's national
 Albert Gallatin Lanier, a retired editor and lawyer, died yesterday at New York University Hospital in Manhattan. He was 89 years old and lived in Manhattan and Wilton, Conn. He died after a lengthy illness, his family said. In 1946 Mr. Lanier became a partner in the law fir
 Hyman Bravin, a lawyer and former Liberal Party official and civic leader, died on Wednesday at his home in Queens. He was 79 years old. He died of heart disease, his family said. For more than 50 years, Mr. Bravin was a criminal and civil trial lawyer based in Manhattan. In
 Joseph Friedman, a retired professor of English at Long Island University, died on Tuesday at his home in Great Neck, L.I. He was 76 years old. He died of heart failure, said a son, Eric. A native of the Bronx, Professor Friedman attended the City College of New York, but in
 Kenneth L. Shorter, a former New York State Supreme Court justice in Manhattan, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 77 years old. Justice Shorter died of heart failure, said his son, Elliot. A native of Manhattan, Justice Shorter graduated from Townsend Harris Hi
 Roger Wagner, the founder of the Roger Wagner Chorale and the Los Angeles Master Chorale, died on Thursday while traveling in France. He was 78 years old and lived in Westlake, Calif. He died of cancer, said Libby Huebner, a publicity agent for the Master Chorale. Dr. Wagner
 William A. Swanberg, the author of a Pulitzer Prize-winning biography of Henry R. Luce, died on Thursday at his home in Southbury, Conn. He was 84 years old. His son, John , said his father, who had continued to write book reviews, died of heart failure. Mr. Swanberg had 10 
 Carl J. Megel, who began teaching in a one-room schoolhouse and rose to lead the movement that spread unionism among teachers across America, died Friday at his home in Rockville, Md. He was 92 years old. He died of congestive heart failure, his family said. Mr. Megel was pr
 George Cherr, a longtime New York State housing official who supervised the construction of Co-op City, the nation's largest subsidized housing project, died on Thursday at the Masonic Nursing Home in Utica, N.Y. He was 97 years old and until recently lived in Manhattan. He died aft
 Gladwin Hill, a journalist who in 44 years with The New York Times pioneered environmental reporting and described for a generation of readers Los Angeles's growth from an outpost to a metropolis, died this evening at his home here. He was 78 years old. Mr. Hill, a heavy smoker, die
 Otis S. Freeman, an innovator in television engineering who helped develop the sports instant replay and superimposed letters and graphics, died on Thursday at Anderson Memorial Hospital in Anderson, S.C. He was 71 years old and lived in Anderson. He died of complications of a heart
 Carl J. Megel, who began teaching in a one-room schoolhouse and rose to lead the movement that spread unionism among teachers across America, died Friday at his home in Rockville, Md. He was 92 years old. He died of congestive heart failure, his family said. Mr. Megel was pr
 Gladwin Hill, a journalist who in 44 years with The New York Times pioneered environmental reporting and described for a generation of readers Los Angeles's growth from an outpost to a metropolis, died Saturday evening at his home here. He was 78 years old. Mr. Hill, a heavy smoker,
 Warren Moscow, a political reporter for The New York Times who became a top aide to Mayor Robert F. Wagner, died yesterday at his farmhouse in Putnam Valley, N.Y. He was 84 years old. Mr. Moscow, who had been ill for the last two years, died of complications from diabetes, said his 
 William J. Dunn, a CBS radio correspondent who covered Gen. Douglas MacArthur and the war in the Pacific from 1941 to 1945, died on Saturday at Northern Dutchess Hospital in Rhinebeck, N.Y. He was 86 years old and lived in Rhinebeck. He died of heart failure after a lengthy illness,
 David Bathurst, a former chairman of Christie's who resigned in 1985 after admitting he had falsified auction results, died in Scotland on Sunday. He was 54 years old and lived in London. He had a heart attack while shooting on the moors in Scotland, said Christopher Burge, the pres
 Dr. David Bodian, a medical scientist and teacher whose work helped lay the groundwork for the Salk and Sabin polio vaccines, died Friday at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore. He was 82 years old and lived in Baltimore. He died of Parkinson's disease, said Johns Hopkins University
 Edward M. M. Warburg, a philanthropist and benefactor of the arts, died yesterday afternoon in Norwalk Hospital in Norwalk, Conn. He was 84 years old and lived in Wilton, Conn. He died of heart failure after he was admitted to the hospital four days earlier for heart disease, said h
 Jacques Pic, the renowned chef of the Ardeche region of southern France, died of heart disease on Friday, his family announced Saturday. He was 59 years old. His restaurant, called simply Pic, near the town of Valence, was one of the few regularly awarded three stars in the authorit
 Dr. Leon Jacobson, who was the chief doctor for the research team that created the atomic bomb, died on Sunday at the University of Chicago's Bernard Mitchell Hospital. He was 81 years old. He died of complications from lung cancer, said John Easton, a spokesman for the university. 
 Louis R. Breslin, a retired partner of the New York law firm of Cravath, Swaine & Moore, died on Friday at his home in Watertown, N.Y. He was 88 years old and also lived in Manhattan and in Shaftsbury, Vt. Mr. Breslin died of complications resulting from emphysema, said George J. Gi
 Reuben Kadish, an American sculptor whose rough-hewn figures and monumental heads often evoked the art of ancient civilizations, died on Sunday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 79 years old and had homes in Manhattan and Vernon, N.J. He died of complications from chronic le
 Sir Geraint Evans, a Welsh baritone who was best known for his portrayals of Falstaff, Figaro and Leporello, died on Saturday at Bronglais Hospital in Aberystwyth, Wales. He was 70 years old and lived in Aberaeron, on the west coast of Wales. The Associated Press reported that he di
 Stanley Ross, a former journalist specializing in Latin American and Caribbean affairs, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Washington. A resident of Manhattan, he was 78 years old. His family said he died after a long illness. Further details were not released. A native of 
 Prof. Charles H. Shattuck, a Shakespearean scholar and an authority on the performance of the playwright's works in the United States, died on Monday at his home in Urbana, Ill. He was 81 years old. He died after a long illness, his family said. Professor Shattuck, who had b
 Dan Lacey, an authority on changes in the American work force, especially on the wave of cutbacks made by companies in recent years, died on Monday in Westlake, Ohio. He was 42 years old. Mr. Lacey died of a heart attack, said his wife, Margaret. Mr. Lacey, the editor of the
 David B. Huxley, a retired financier in New York City and a former British official in Bermuda, died on Sept. 6 at his home in Wansford, England. He was 76 years old. He died of heart failure, his family said. Mr. Huxley was the vice president and legal adviser to Arnold Ber
 Michael J. Floersheim, an international commodities trader, investor and philanthropist, died on Sunday at his home in Zurich. He was 54 years old. He apparently died of a heart attack, his family said Mr. Floersheim was born into a prominent banking family in the Netherland
 Steven J. Massey, a law professor at New York Law School, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 43 years old. He died of cancer, said his wife, Kathleen. Professor Massey had taught at New York Law School since 1990, specializing in moral law and contracts. Profe
 Thomas I. Fitzgerald, a lawyer and former Manhattan Democratic Party and court official, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 85 years old. His family declined to give a specific cause of death. Mr. Fitzgerald served for 19 years as the public administrator for th
 The Rev. Dr. Alison Reid Bryan, a retired Presbyterian minister who served churches in New Jersey and New York from 1931 until 1977, died on Tuesday at his home in Frenchtown, N.J. He died in his sleep, nine days after his 101st birthday, his family said. Dr. Bryan, a native
 In a case that reveals the stress and complicated financial ties that can develop between performing artists and those who represent them, the singer Billy Joel filed a lawsuit yesterday against his lawyers, Allen Grubman and Arthur Indursky, and their New York City firm. The suit, 
 Hal Hester, a co-creator of "Your Own Thing," the 1968 hit Off Broadway show that was the first rock musical and whose title became a youth-culture motto, died on Sept. 13 at the Rio Piedras Medical Center in Puerto Rico. He was 63 years and lived in Cayey, Puerto Rico. He died of d
 If the General Motors Willow Run Assembly Plant, with 4,000 hourly workers, is a small town, then Bob Harlow is the mayor. He is the president of the auto workers' Local 1776. Only now, his town is going out of business. The cars it has been building will be produced instead in Arlington, T
 Gen. James A. Van Fleet, a foot soldier through nearly four decades in the Army and a commander who led major campaigns in World War II and the Korean War, died yesterday at his ranch in Polk City, Fla. He was 100 years old. He died in his sleep, funeral home officials said.        
 Paul E. Garber, whose childhood fascination with a kite inspired a lifelong love of aviation that led to the founding of the National Air and Space Museum in Washington, died yesterday at the Arlington Hospital in Arlington, Va. He was 93 years old and lived in Arlington. His family
 Paul S. Woerner, an entertainment lawyer in New York, died on Tuesday at his home in Newtown, Conn. He was 40 years old and also lived in Manhattan. Mr. Woerner died of AIDS-related meningitis, said a friend, Bill Riley. Mr. Woerner, a native of Clinton, Mo., earned a bachel
 Peter G. Cook, a portrait and landscape painter, died on Tuesday at his home in Kingston, N.J. He was 77 years old. He died of cancer, his family said. Mr. Cook, a native of New York City, graduated from Princeton University in 1937, where he majored in archicture. He finish
 Samuel N. Greenspoon, a lawyer, died at his home in Manhattan on Sept. 19. He was 72 years old. Mr. Greenspoon died of a heart attack, said Elaine Zweibel, a spokeswoman for the New York Law firm of Carb, Luria, Glassner, Cook & Kufeld, where Mr. Greenspoon was of counsel. D
 Stuart W. Thayer, a New York lawyer who specialized in international finance, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 66 years old. The cause of death was cancer, his family said. He retired in February as a partner in Sullivan & Cromwell after managing its London o
 Tim Taylor, a magazine editor and former legislative spokesman and civic leader, died on Tuesday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 39 years old and lived in Manhattan and Southampton, L.I. He died of complications from AIDS, his family said. From 1976 to 
 William P. Mott Jr., director of the National Park Service from 1985 to 1989, died on Monday in Orinda, Calif., where he lived. He was 82 years old. Mr. Mott, who had been suffering from pneumonia for the last month, died of heart failure, said Jo Hemphill, a spokeswoman for the fam
 Dennis Thim, the European editor and correspondent of Women's Wear Daily and the fashion magazines W and M, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Paris. He was 33 years old and lived in Paris. He died of AIDS-related causes, the publisher of the three periodicals, Fairchild Publication
 Dr. John A. Collins, a medical educator who led an Army research team in Vietnam that made a significant change in blood transfusion practices for casualties, died on Monday. He was 58 years old and lived in Stanford, Calif. He died of a heart attack while playing golf on vacation i
 Frank P. Briggs, a rural newspaper publisher from Missouri who succeeded Harry S. Truman in the United States Senate in 1944, died on Wednesday at Samaritan Memorial Hospital in Macon, Mo. He was 98 years old and lived in Macon. He was admitted to the hospital on Monday to be tested
 Norman D. Erlanger, a retired stockbroker, died on Wednesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 83 years old and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Erlanger died of heart failure, said his son, Michael. A native of Chappaqua, N.Y., Mr. Erlanger moved to New York City as a youn
 Paul E. Garber, whose childhood fascination with a kite inspired a lifelong love of aviation that led to the founding of the National Air and Space Museum in Washington, died on Wednesday at the Arlington Hospital in Arlington, Va. He was 93 years old and lived in Arlington. His fam
 Paul Tully, the political director of the Democratic National Committee and one of his party's pre-eminent strategists, was found dead in Little Rock, Ark., today. He was 48 years old. Coroner Steve Nawojczyk of Pulaski County said Mr. Tully's body was found about 3 P.M. today by a 
 Robert C. Caviano, a founder of Lifebeat, the music industry's organization to fight AIDS, died on Sept. 22 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 42 years old and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Caviano died of AIDS complications, said Frances Pennington, a spokeswoma
 Seymour Weiss, a defense and foreign-policy expert who was a retired top State Department official and adviser to President Ronald Reagan, died Wednesday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 67 years old. He died of liver cancer, his family said. Mr. Weiss was known as a hard
 Tony Tamburello, a jazz pianist and a vocal coach whose clients included Tony Bennett, Judy Garland and Juliet Prowse, died on Tuesday at Our Lady of Mercy Hospital in the Bronx, near his home. He was 72 years old. He died of a heart attack, said Mary Chiappa, a family friend.      
 Franklin Jerome Lunding, who built a giant food-store chain and who was twice chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, died Thursday at Naples Community Hospital in Naples, Fla. A former resident of Winnetka, Ill., he was 86 years old and had retired to Naples. He died after
 Harrison G. Platt Jr., an author and dictionary editor, died on Sept. 17 at Bellevue Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 90 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of complications of pancreatic cancer, his family said. In his 37 years as an editor, Mr. Platt was the edit
 Howard L. Hausman, a retired New York talent-agency executive, died on Tuesday at his home in Bradenton, Fla. He was 77 years old. He died after a long illness, said the William Morris Agency, from which he retired in 1981. A graduate of New York University and Harvard Law S
 Walter A. Miller, who practiced law in Brooklyn for 64 years, died on Thursday at Long Island College Hospital in Brooklyn. He was 87 years old and lived in Brooklyn. He died of heart failure, his family said. A native of Brooklyn, Mr. Miller was a 1925 Phi Beta Kappa gradua
 Willard F. Rockwell Jr., who inherited his father's companies and expanded them into a modern aerospace conglomerate, the Rockwell International Corporation, died Thursday at his home in Pittsburgh. He was 78 years old. He died of cancer, his family said. Mr. Rockwell, who w
 Howard P. Krieger, a prominent New York City neurologist, died on Friday at the Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 74 years old and lived in Manhattan and Montauk. He died of cancer, his family said. Dr. Krieger, a medical teacher, researcher and clinician, was 
 Jacob A. Salzmann, an expert on dentistry, orthodontics and cleft palates, died on Friday at his home in in Manhattan. He was 91 years old. He was recently hospitalized, but the cause of death was not disclosed. Dr. Salzmann was an outspoken advocate of early dental and orth
 Ralph Manheim, for nearly 50 years a prolific and widely acclaimed English translator of major German and French works, including books by Hitler, Freud, Proust, Brecht and Grass, died yesterday at his home in Cambridge, England. He was 85 years old. He died of complications of pros
 Ralph Manheim, for nearly 50 years a prolific and widely acclaimed English translator of major German and French works, including books by Hitler, Freud, Proust, Brecht and Grass, died Sept. 26 at his home in Cambridge, England. He was 85 years old. He died of complications of prost
 Bernard E. Alpern, a former corporate executive, builder and philanthropist in New York, died on Friday in Palm Beach, Fla., where he was living in retirement. He was 90 years old. His family said he died of prostate cancer after a long illness. An architecture graduate of C
 Dr. Edward Franklin Bland, an authority on rheumatic fever and a cardiologist at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, died on Sunday. He was 91 years old. A Massachusetts General spokesman said Dr. Bland suffered a heart attack at his home in Brookline, Mass., and was taken to 
 Harold Seymour, a one-time bat boy for the Brooklyn Dodgers who turned his childhood passion for baseball into an academic specialty as one of the first recognized historians of the national pastime, died on Saturday in Keene, N.H., where he had lived since 1985. He was 82 years old and suf
 James J. Herron, a retired executive of the Dun & Bradstreet Corporation in New York, died on Friday at North Florida Regional Hospital in Gainesville, Fla. He was 83 years old and lived in Edison and Gillette, N.J., before moving to Gainesville four years ago. He died of respirator
 Dr. Nelson Clark Walker, a retired family practitioner in Hackensack, N.J., died Saturday at Southampton Hospital. He was 79 years old and a resident of Hackensack and East Hampton, L.I. His family said he died of a heart attack. Dr. Walker retired two years ago as a foundin
 Walter H. Hindle, an authority on the manufacture and marketing of textiles and man-made fibers, died on Wednesday at New York Hospital. He was 83 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died after a long illness, said a niece, Judith Riegle. Mr. Hindle was president of Walter 
 Arthur T. Mosher, a former president of the Agricultural Development Council, an international agricultural development organization, died Sunday at his home in Black Mountain, N.C. He was 82 years old. Dr. Mosher, who lived for many years in Ithaca, N.Y., before moving to North Car
 W. Henry Sebrell Jr., a pioneer in vitamin research and an international authority on nutrition, died yesterday at his home in Pompano Beach, Fla. He was 91 years old. He died of cancer, his family said. Dr. Sebrell was director of the National Institutes of Health and Assis
 Henry Jaffe, a former show-business lawyer who became an award-winning television producer, died on Sept. 11 at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 85 years old. A native of New York City, Mr. Jaffe received diplomas from Columbia University and its law school. He was a founder
 Robert G. Fairburn, the retired head of the Diamond Match Company who led the expansion of the leading producer of matches into other industries, died on Saturday at the Community Hospital in Monterey, Calif. He was 81 years old and lived in Carmel, Calif. He died after a history of
 William Douglas-Home, a prolific English playwright of light comedy, died on Monday at his home in Winchester, England. He was 80 years old. He died of a heart attack, said his niece, Caroline Douglas-Home. Mr. Douglas-Home, several of whose works made it to Broadway and the
