 Joe McCluskey, a 1932 Olympic medalist who won more United States track and field titles than any other runner, died yesterday at his home in Madison, Conn. He was 91. Although Henry Laskau, a long-retired race walker, won 42 national titles, no runner has approached McCluskey's 27.
 Lionel Hampton, whose flamboyant mastery of the vibraphone made him one of the leading figures of the swing era, died yesterday morning at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 94. The cause was complications of old age and a recent heart attack, said his manager, Phil Les
 Paul Tripp, a Pied Piper of early children's television who created the musical fantasy ''Tubby the Tuba'' and appeared as the host of his own show, ''Mr. I. Magination,'' died on Thursday in Manhattan. He was 91. It was while serving in the Army in China during World War II that Mr
 Stanley R. Greenberg, a television screenwriter who shaped the docudrama format with his meticulously researched scripts for ''Pueblo,'' ''The Missiles of October'' and other dramas, died Aug. 25 at his home in Kensington, Calif. He was 74. The cause was a brain tumor, said a friend
 Bern Laxer, creator of Bern's Steak House in Tampa, Fla., one of the country's more unusual and most popular restaurants, died on Saturday at his home in Tampa. He was 78. He died after a long illness, his son, David, said. Bern's, which opened in 1956, quickly grew into a major Flo
 Dean Riesner, who began his movie career as a toddler acting with Charlie Chaplin and went on to become a seasoned scriptwriter who dreamed up some of Clint Eastwood's tough-guy lines, died Aug. 18 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 83. Mr. Riesner worked mostly on feature films and
 Dr. Sanford L. Palay, a neuroscientist who helped uncover the detailed anatomy of the nerve cell and obtained the first images of the synapse and the structures that release messenger chemicals in the brain, died Aug. 5 at a hospital in Concord, Mass. He was 83. The cause was kidney
 Robert Van Scoyk, a writer and producer of television whodunits like the CBS series ''Murder, She Wrote,'' died on Aug. 23 in Los Angeles. A resident of the city since the late 1960's, he was 74. The cause was complications from diabetes, his family said. Mr. Scoyk wrote and
 Lord Porter, who shared the 1967 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for developing a technique to set off and observe chemical reactions with flashes of light, died on Aug. 31. He was 81. Lord Porter's research, performed at Cambridge University in the 1940's and 1950's with his mentor, Dr. R
 Sheldon H. Harris, an American historian who helped establish that the Japanese army conducted biological warfare experiments in occupied China during the Second World War and that the United States knew about this but tried to cover up the evidence, died on Aug. 31 in Los Angeles. He was 7
 W. Clement Stone, who parlayed $100 in savings into an insurance empire that financed millions of dollars of contributions to the campaigns of Richard M. Nixon and hundreds of millions to charities, died on Tuesday in Evanston, Ill. He was 100 and lived in Winnetka, Ill. Mr. Stone's
 Martin D. Kamen, one of the scientists who discovered radioactive carbon-14 and in doing so helped lay a foundation for deciphering the chemical processes in plants and animals, died on Aug. 31 at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 89. ''The whole world changed,'' said Dr. Art
 Abe Lemons, who won 599 games coaching basketball at Oklahoma City University, Pan American University and the University of Texas in a career that spanned 34 seasons, died on Monday at his home in Oklahoma City. He was 79. The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, his fam
 Clemens Heller, who at the end of World War II established the Salzburg Seminar, a meeting point for students and intellectuals from the United States and Europe that was sometimes called the Marshall Plan of the Mind, died last Friday in Lausanne, Switzerland. He was 85. Later Mr. 
 Eric Friedheim, a journalist, publisher, patron of contemporary composers and elder statesman of the travel industry, died on June 24 in Manhattan. He was 92 and lived in Manhattan and Westport, Conn. A former publisher of Travel Agent magazine, he was the founder of the Friedheim A
 Glenn E. Watts, who as president of the Communications Workers of America led a three-week strike of 525,000 workers against the American Telephone and Telegraph Company in 1983, died on Aug. 30 in Washington. He was 82 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md. The cause was complications after
 J. Lee Thompson, the director of ''The Guns of Navarone,'' the original ''Cape Fear'' and dozens of other films in England and the United States, died on Friday at his summer home in Sooke, British Columbia. He was 88 and lived in Los Angeles. Mr. Thompson, who was born in Bristol, 
 Pepsi Bethel, a longtime jazz-dance performer, teacher and choreographer, died on Aug. 30 at King's Harbor Multicare Facility in the Bronx. He was 83 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cardiopulmonary arrest, said Vernel Bagneris, a colleague and friend. Mr. Bethel was a dapper, 
 Albert J. Costello, former chairman, president and chief executive of W. R. Grace & Company, died on Tuesday while playing golf at the Arcola Country Club in Paramus, N.J. He was 66 and lived in Franklin Lakes, N.J. The cause was evidently related to heart problems he had had, said 
 Andrew Forge, a painter, critic, teacher and former dean of painting at the Yale School of Art, died on Wednesday in New Milford, Conn. He was 78 and lived in Washington Depot, Conn. The cause was an aortic aneurysm, his family said. Over more than 50 years, Mr. Forge remain
 David Bierk, a Canadian painter, died on Aug. 28 in Peterborough, Ontario. He was 58. Mr. Bierk, who was suffering from leukemia, died of pneumonia, said Nancy Hoffman, his New York dealer. Mr. Bierk worked in the postmodern genre, in which images and forms appropriated from
 Edmund Taylor Pratt Jr., a former chairman of Pfizer Inc., whose long executive tenure bolstered the company's role in research and operations worldwide, died on Thursday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 75 and lived in Port Washington, N.Y. He suffered a brief illn
 Franklyn D. Holzman, an economist who uncovered regressive taxation in the Soviet Union and railed against intelligence estimates of Soviet military spending, died on Sunday at the home of his daughter, Miriam Meyer, with whom he lived in Clifton, Va. He was 83. The cause was compli
 Roy F. Katz, a deputy New York City fire commissioner who managed the Fire Department's construction program for the last six years, died on Wednesday at Cornell Medical Center. He was 48 and lived in Hollis Hills, Queens. The cause was complications after a bone marrow transplant, 
 Vlado Perlemuter, the revered French pianist who studied with Ravel and Fauré and was an acclaimed interpreter of their works, died on Wednesday at the American Hospital in Paris. He was 98. If Mr. Perlemuter never attained widespread public renown, it may have been because of a ce
 Dr. David T. Wilkinson, a pioneer in studying microwave radiation left behind by the Big Bang birth of the universe, died on Thursday at Princeton Hospital. He was 67. The cause of death was cancer, which he had battled for 18 years, according to Princeton University, where Dr. Wilk
 Frankie Albert, the first T-formation quarterback in modern college football as a two-time all-American at Stanford and later a star with the San Francisco 49ers, died Wednesday at a nursing home in Menlo Park, Calif. Albert, who lived in Palo Alto, Calif., was 82. The cause was com
 Cardinal Lucas Moreira Neves, one of Latin America's leading Roman Catholic figures, who was once considered a contender to succeed Pope John Paul II, died in Rome on Sunday. He was 76. A conservative yet conciliatory voice, Cardinal Neves was the most prominent Catholic primate in 
 John P. Frank, a lawyer and law professor who helped shape the argument in the landmark Brown v. Board of Education case and represented Ernesto Miranda in the United States Supreme Court, died on Saturday in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 84. Mr. Frank advised Thurgood Marshall of the NA
 Uzi Gal, the Israeli armaments expert who invented the widely used 9-millimeter submachine gun called the Uzi, died on Saturday at his home in Philadelphia. He was 79. He had cancer, Agence France-Presse reported. In 1976, Mr. Gal retired from Israel's government-owned weapo
 Ed Warner, who was a star forward for the City College basketball team that won the National Invitation Tournament and N.C.A.A. tournament championships in 1950 but shattered his career in the point-shaving scandal that engulfed the game, died Saturday at his home in Harlem. He was 73.     
 Henri Rol-Tanguy, one of France's most decorated Resistance heroes, who organized the popular uprising against the German occupation of Paris and, a few days later, joined the Gaullist general, Philippe Leclerc, in taking the surrender of German forces stationed here, died Sunday. He was 94
 Johnny Unitas, who rose from a $6-a-game sandlot player to become perhaps professional football's greatest quarterback, died yesterday in suburban Baltimore. He was 69. Unitas had a heart attack while working out at a physical therapy center in Timonium, Md., Vivienne Stearns-Elliot
 Cliff Gorman, a stage, film and television actor who won a Tony Award for his dynamic portrayal of Lenny Bruce in the Broadway play ''Lenny,'' died last Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 65. The cause was leukemia, said his wife, Gayle, his only survivor. In ''Lenny,
 Peter R. Barton, who worked closely with John C. Malone to found Tele-Communications Inc., which grew into one of the nation's largest cable operators, died at his home on Sunday of stomach cancer. He was 51 and lived in Denver. Mr. Barton had a diverse career that began in politics
 Rolf Fjelde, one of the leading translators of Ibsen's plays into English, died on Tuesday at his home in White Plains. He was 76. Mr. Fjelde was also a teacher, poet and playwright, but he was best known for his work with Ibsen. His fluent and authoritative translations of 12 major
 Wesley Naylor, a creator and composer of the long-running gospel musical ''Mama, I Want to Sing'' as well as two sequels, died on Aug. 25 at his home in Brooklyn. He was 44. Mr. Naylor was found dead in his apartment. The cause is still under investigation, said his brother Wendell,
 Philippe Wamba, the son of a Congolese rebel leader, who wrote about his family's complex and often disorienting dual existence as both Africans and Americans, died Wednesday in a car accident in Kenya while doing research for a book. He was 31. Mr. Wamba, who had lived in Boston fo
 William Phillips, the co-founder and longtime editor of Partisan Review, the forum for the brilliant and contentious stable of writers who became known as the New York Intellectuals, died yesterday in Manhattan, where he lived. He was 94. Partisan Review's circulation never exceeded
 Jerry Boyd, a boxing trainer whose search for literary recognition ended two years ago when he published a book of short fiction under the name F. X. Toole, died on Sept. 2 of complications after heart surgery at a hospital in Torrance, Calif. He was 72. Mr. Boyd's picaresque life a
 Salvator Altchek, known for 67 years as the $5 doctor to the melting pot of Brooklyn, especially the poorer residents of affluent Brooklyn Heights, died on Tuesday. He was 92. He continued to work until two months ago, but gave up house calls five years ago. He delivered thousands o
 Dr. Orvan W. Hess, an obstetrician and gynecologist who pioneered the development of the fetal heart monitor and was instrumental in the first successful clinical use of penicillin, died on Sept. 6 at Yale-New Haven Hospital, his family said. He was 96. The fetal heart monitor has b
 Dr. Robert E. Apfel, a professor and engineer who designed pioneering studies that examined the physics of liquids and saw his results applied to areas as diverse as the manufacture of cosmetics and the cleanup of environmental oil spills, died Aug. 1 in New Haven. He was 59. The ca
 The Rev. John C. Harper, who for three decades was the rector of St. John's Episcopal Church on Lafayette Square across from the White House, known as the Church of the Presidents, died on Friday at Sibley Hospital here. He was 78. The cause was a heart attack, his family said.     
 Aaron L. Danzig, a lawyer who served as counsel to the losing side in Erie Railroad Co. v. Tompkins, the landmark 1938 Supreme Court case that limited the power of the federal courts, died in New York City on Sept. 10. He was 89 and lived in Manhattan. Until recently, he had been a 
 David Grene, whose translations of ancient Greek spoke with such clarity that the writer Saul Bellow suggested he was on a first-name basis with Sophocles and Aristophanes, died on Sept. 10 in Chicago. He was 89. Mr. Grene's two residences reflected his seemingly separate lives: for
 Howard Thomas Odum, a founder of the modern science of ecology and an influential voice in the restoration of the Everglades, died on Wednesday at a hospice here. He was 78. The cause was cancer, The Gainesville Sun said. In six decades as a professor of environmental scienc
 Tanjore Viswanathan, a flutist and teacher who was one of the most influential south Indian musicians in the United States, died on Sept. 10 in Hartford. He was 75 and lived in Middletown, Conn. The cause was a heart attack, said a spokeswoman for Wesleyan University, where he taugh
 Dr. Robert H. Kirschner, a forensic pathologist whose work helped convict officials from the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda of genocide in cases heard by United Nations international criminal tribunals, died on Sunday in Chicago. He was 61. The cause of death was complications of canc
 Sidney Epstein, a Washington journalist who covered or supervised coverage of news events including the assassination of President John F. Kennedy and the 1968 riots that devastated large parts of Washington, died on Sunday in Rockville, Md. He was 81 and had Alzheimer's disease, said his n
 Donald L. Campbell, the last of the four engineers who, as World War II began, invented a cheaper and more efficient process to ''crack'' large hydrocarbons into smaller molecules useful for things like fuel and plastics, died on Saturday at a nursing home in Brick, N.J. He was 98. 
 Peter W. Stroh, a former chairman of the Stroh Brewing Company, died on Tuesday at his home in Grosse Pointe Farms, Mich. He was 74. The cause was brain cancer, said Mr. Stroh's cousin, John Stroh III. Mr. Stroh was a philanthropist and conservationist whose family fortune w
 Bob Hayes, a pigeon-toed sprinter who broke world records, won two gold medals in the 1964 Tokyo Olympics and then became a feared pass receiver for 11 seasons in the National Football League, died Wednesday night in his hometown of Jacksonville, Fla. He was 59. The cause was compli
 Derek Davies, an editor of the Far Eastern Economic Review for 25 years who built the magazine into a major source of news and comment on the region despite his love-hate relationship with its prickly rulers, died on Sept. 15 in Antibes. He was 71 and lived in the south of France. T
 Raúl Chibas, a former close associate of Fidel Castro who defected to Florida in an outboard motorboat in 1960 in order, he said, to ''make it known to the Cuban people that I did not like what their government is doing,'' died on Aug. 25 in a Miami hospital. He was 86 and lived in Miami. 
 Anthony L. Turkevich, a scientist who was the first to figure out what the moon is made of -- and who did it before astronauts brought back any samples -- died on Sept. 7 at his home in Lexington, Va. He was 86. Before Neil Armstrong landed on the moon in 1969, NASA sent several unm
 Curtis Cuffie, a sculptor of elaborate and witty assemblages of objects found in the street who developed his technique during years of homelessness, was found dead on Sept. 13 in his Manhattan apartment. He was 47. The cause appeared to be a heart attack, said Carol Thompson, his c
 David Wisniewski, an artist who worked as a clown and shadow puppeteer before turning to cut paper and children's books, died on Sept. 11 at a nursing home in Alexandria, Va., after a brief illness. He was 49 and lived in Monrovia, Md. He used his layered cut-paper technique to grea
 Karl L. Brown, a pioneer in the development of compact linear accelerators used for cancer treatment, died on Aug. 29 in Stanford, Calif. He was 76 and lived in Menlo Park, Calif. The cause was heart failure, according to Stanford University, where he was an emeritus professor of ap
 Sir Robert Wilson, a British astrophysicist who helped develop an early orbiting observatory that provided numerous insights into celestial bodies as humble as comets and as spectacular as supernovas, died on Sept. 2 in Chelmsford, England. He was 75. The cause of death was not disc
 Jack Potter, an innovative illustrator of the 1950's who suddenly dropped out of the field and achieved his widest influence as a teacher of drawing and conceptual thinking at the School of Visual Arts, died at his home in New York on Sept. 14. He was 74. The cause was a heart attac
 James Mitchell, a British author of espionage and suspense novels that were praised in the United States, died Sept. 15 in Newcastle-Upon-Tyne, England. He was 76 and lived in Newcastle. The cause of death was not immediately disclosed. The critic Newgate Callendar wrote in 
 Rafael Druian, a violinist and conductor who served as the concertmaster for the New York Philharmonic, the Cleveland Orchestra and other ensembles, died on Sept. 6 in Philadelphia. He was 80 and lived in Philadelphia. Mr. Druian was born in Vologda, Russia, and grew up in Havana, w
 Jan de Hartog, the Dutch novelist and playwright, the author of the 1951 Broadway hit ''The Fourposter,'' died Sunday in Houston. He was 88 and lived in Houston. Mr. de Hartog's early adventures at sea and his escape from the Nazis during World War II furnished him with material for
 Peter Kowald, the German bassist who worked in the realm of free improvisation and brought to his musicianship a lifetime of wide traveling and study and an admiration of interdisciplinary art, died early Saturday morning after a performance in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. He was 58 years old, a
 Leon Hart, who won the 1949 Heisman Trophy as a massive end at Notre Dame and played on Detroit Lions teams that won three National Football League championships, died yesterday at a hospital in South Bend, Ind. He was 73. Hart's death was announced by Notre Dame, which said he had 
 Mike Webster, whose Hall of Fame pro football career was followed by more than a decade of physical and psychological turmoil apparently brought on by repeated blows to the head on the field, died yesterday in a Pittsburgh hospital. He was 50. The cause of death was a heart attack, 
 Robert O. Jordan, who helped create advertising campaigns for clients as diverse as Procter & Gamble and The National Enquirer, died Sunday at his home in Weston, Conn. He was 69. The cause was cancer, his wife, Susan, said. Mr. Jordan, whose career spanned five decades, led
 Bob Wallace, a pioneering programmer of the personal computer era who helped invent ''shareware'' software marketing , died on Friday at his home in San Rafael, Calif. He was 53. The cause was not immediately known and the results of an autopsy are not yet available, said his wife, 
 Murray Baron, a labor lawyer and consultant and former Liberal Party leader who became the president of the conservative journalism criticism group Accuracy in Media, died on Monday in Greenwich, Conn. He was 94. In a long career in labor in which his personal politics gradually vee
 Nils Bohlin, inventor of the three-point safety belt for cars, which is credited with saving countless lives since it was introduced in Europe in the 1950's, died on Saturday in Tranas, Sweden. He was 82. The cause was complications of a heart attack he suffered earlier that week an
 Dodo Marmarosa, a jazz pianist who became known as an early master of bebop's harmonic complexity and then vanished from the scene, died on Sept. 17 at a hospital in Pittsburgh. He was 76 and lived in Pittsburgh. The cause appeared to be a heart attack, The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette r
 Eduard Y. Gufeld, a chess grandmaster and prolific chess writer who coached many Russian players, including the former women's world champion Maya Chiburdanidze, died on Monday in Los Angeles. He was 66 and had lived in Los Angeles since 1995. Mr. Gufeld's death, at Cedars-Sinai Med
 Joseph Nathan Kane, whose lifelong obsession with facts led him to write exhaustive reference works that cataloged such things as the nicknames of presidents, when the first Eskimo Pie was created (1922), when the first camels were brought to America (1721) and the precise patent number of 
 Glen Rounds, who was born in a sod house near Wall, S.D., and worked as a mule skinner, cowboy and carnival medicine man before beginning a long career as an author and illustrator, died yesterday in Pinehurst, N.C. He was 96. His last work, ''Beaver'' (Holiday House), was published
 Ray Hayworth, a longtime catcher who was the last surviving teammate of Ty Cobb on the Detroit Tigers and the oldest living former major league player, died Wednesday at a nursing home in Salisbury, N.C. He was 98. When Hayworth made his debut in the major leagues, Calvin Coolidge w
 Robert L. Forward, a science fiction writer, physicist and inventor whose 11 novels were inspired by his research into gravitational physics and advanced space propulsion, died at his home in Seattle last Saturday. He was 70. The cause of death was cancer, his son-in-law, Ben Mattli
 Warren E. Burnett, a whiskey-swigging, Shakespeare-quoting Texas lawyer who achieved near-legendary status by winning big jury awards, taking on seemingly impossible murder cases and defending the powerless, died on Monday while visiting Fort Davis, Tex. He was 75. He was sitting on
 David Granger, who acquired a seat on the New York Stock Exchange in 1926 and occupied it for the next three-quarters of a century, died Friday at the Mary Manning Walsh Home in Manhattan. He was 99 years old. Dapper in a suit and tie nearly every day of his adult life, he was activ
 Charles Henri Ford, a poet, editor, novelist, artist and legendary cultural catalyst whose career spanned much of 20th-century modernism, died on Friday in Manhattan. He was 94 and lived in Manhattan and had a house in Katmandu. Mr. Ford, who also had homes in Paris and on Crete for
