 Paul Reynard, a French-born painter who was active for more than three decades as an artist and teacher in New York, died on Friday at his home in Monsey, N.Y. He was 78. The cause was lung cancer, his wife, Ellen, said. Mr. Reynard, who had five solo exhibitions at the Brew
 Endre Marton, a prize-winning journalist who sent the first account of the Hungarian uprising of 1956 just weeks after serving a year in prison for covering the events preceding it, died yesterday at the home of a daughter in Manhattan. He was 95. His daughter Kati Marton confirmed 
 Lloyd Bochner, a classically trained actor who played suave heroes and villains for more than 50 years in theater, television and film, died Saturday at his home in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 81. The cause was cancer, his son Paul Bochner said. Mr. Bochner began working pro
 Tony Jackson, a brilliant jump shooter and a two-time all-American who led St. John's University to the championships of the National Invitation Tournament and the Holiday Festival in an era when those tournaments showcased college basketball's finest talent, died Friday in Brooklyn. He was
 Skitch Henderson, the conductor, pianist and radio and television entertainer who provided music and repartee for the ''Tonight'' show in the 1950's and 60's and who founded and led the New York Pops, died on Tuesday at his home in New Milford, Conn. He was 87. His death was announc
 William O. Baker, a prominent scientist and a former head of Bell Laboratories who advised five presidents on scientific affairs, died on Monday in Chatham, N.J. He was 90 and had lived in Morristown, N.J., for many years. The cause was heart failure, his son, Joseph, said. 
 Waldemar Nielsen, an influential and widely recognized expert on the workings of charitable foundations who wrote exhaustive, critical analyses of America's foremost philanthropies, their goals and their methods, died on Wednesday in New York, where he lived. He was 88. The death wa
 William L. McLaughlin, a radiation scientist who devised accurate and widely used methods for measuring the radiation absorbed by cancer patients and by many foods and commercial products, died Oct. 26 at his home in Lexington, Va. He was 77. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his fam
 Alan Pifer, under whose guidance the Carnegie Corporation of New York adjusted its educational focus to a wider context -- social and racial justice -- in the 1960's and 1970's, died on Monday in Shelburne, Vt. A former resident of Greens Farms, Conn., he was 84. His death was annou
 R. C. Gorman, an internationally prominent Navajo artist whose portraits of voluptuous women in flowing traditional dress embodied the American Southwest for collectors around the world, died on Thursday at a hospital in Albuquerque. A longtime resident of Taos, N.M., he was believed to be 
 Chester L. Cooper, a retired United States diplomat who in the 1950's and 60's was a backstage player in many of the most critical negotiations of the cold war, died on Oct. 30 in Washington. He was 88. During his years in public service, Mr. Cooper often worked, as he later wrote, 
 E. Stewart Williams, an architect whose many works in Palm Springs, Calif., including a home for Frank Sinatra, helped define what became known as the Desert Modern style, died on Sept. 10. He was 95. He died at his home in Palm Springs, said Michael J. Stern, an artist who is writi
 Emile Capouya, an essayist, critic and publisher who late in life published his first story collection, ''In the Sparrow Hills,'' died on Oct. 13 at his home in East Meredith, N.Y. He was 80. His death was announced by his family. Based on Mr. Capouya's experiences as a youn
 John Fowles, the British writer whose teasing, multilayered fiction explored the tensions between free will and the constraints of society, even as it played with traditional novelistic conventions and challenged readers to find their own interpretations, died on Saturday at his home in Lym
 Maurice Rosenfield, a civil liberties lawyer turned theatrical producer who helped bring several well-received shows to Broadway, including the Tony Award-winning musical ''Barnum,'' died on Oct. 30 in Lake Forest, Ill. He was 91 and lived in Glencoe, Ill. The cause was heart failur
 Milton Elkin, who founded the radiology department at Albert Einstein College of Medicine in 1954 and led it for 32 years, died on Oct. 31 in West Hartford, Conn. A former resident of Scarsdale, N.Y., he was 89. His death was announced by the medical school, an affiliate of Yeshiva 
 Gordon A. Craig, a leading interpreter of modern Germany to the English-speaking world, died on Oct. 30 in Portola Valley, Calif. He was 91. The cause was heart failure, according to Stanford University, where he taught from 1961 until retiring in 1979. Professor Craig reach
 Thomas P. Ronan, a former foreign correspondent for The New York Times, died on Oct. 31 in Kennett Square, Pa. He was 96. His daughter Catherine confirmed the death. Mr. Ronan was on the staff of The Times from 1942 until his retirement in 1978. From 1953 to 1962, he was a r
 Beland H. Honderich, the publisher and editor who transformed The Toronto Star from a publication focused on crime and sensationalism into an influential newspaper with Canada's largest circulation, died on Tuesday in Vancouver, British Columbia. He was 86. The cause was complicatio
 Kocheril Raman Narayanan, India's first Dalit, or ''untouchable,'' president, died in a military hospital here on Wednesday evening, a Defense Ministry spokesman said. He was 85, according to the Press Trust of India, and he had been suffering from pneumonia and kidney failure. More
 Alan A. Reich, the founder and president emeritus of the National Organization on Disability, a voice in public forums for those disabled in any way, died on Tuesday at his home in McLean, Va. He was 75. His death was announced on the Web site of the organization, which he ran until
 Fernando Bujones, whose pure classical technique, sheer power and bold temperament made him one of the first American-born male dancers to become an international ballet superstar, died early Thursday in Miami. He was 50 and had two homes in Florida: in Orlando, where he was artisti
 Leonard N. Block, the retired chairman and chief executive of the Block Drug Company, a philanthropist and a former treasurer of Lincoln Center, died on Wednesday at his home on the Upper East Side. He was 93. The death was announced by his family, who said he had suffered from Alzh
 Peter F. Drucker, the political economist and author, whose view that big business and nonprofit enterprises were the defining innovation of the 20th century led him to pioneering social and management theories, died yesterday at his home in Claremont, Calif. He was 95. His death wa
 Daniel McNamara Gribbon, former managing partner of the prominent Washington law firm Covington & Burling, died on Nov. 3 at his home in Washington. He was 88. The cause was complications of kidney disease, his daughter Diana said. Mr. Gribbon was born on Jan. 27, 1917, in Y
 Ernest Crichlow, an influential Harlem Renaissance painter whose depictions of African-Americans reflected social injustices and shifting social realities through much of the 20th century, died on Thursday at Long Island College Hospital in Brooklyn. He was 91 and lived in Fort Greene, Broo
 Graham Payn, a handsome, debonair actor and singer who for 30 years was the companion of the playwright Noël Coward, died on Nov. 4 at the home the two had shared, Les Avants, in the Swiss Alps above Montreux. He was 87. His death was announced on the Web site of the Noël Coward S
 Michael Mendelson, former president of the investment firm Oppenheimer & Company, died on Nov. 4 at his home in Manhattan. He was 63. The cause was stomach cancer, his family said. After working for nearly 20 years at E. F. Hutton & Company, which dissolved in the 1980's, Mr
 Raymond Hains, one of the last surviving members of the influential French Nouveaux Réalistes group of artists, died on Oct. 28 at his home in Paris. He was 78. His death was confirmed by the French Ministry of Culture. Mr. Hains was best known for the layered, torn and wea
 Theodore T. Puck, a geneticist who devised an efficient method for growing colonies of human cells that he used in developing early and important tests for cell damage from radiation, and later for studying the genetic causes of cancers, died Nov. 6 at a hospital in Denver. He was 89.      
 James J. Fyfe, an author and nationally recognized expert on the use of force by the police, and the top training official in the New York Police Department since 2002, died on Saturday in Princeton, N.J. He was 63. He died at University Medical Center in Princeton after being treat
 Vine Deloria Jr., a Standing Rock Sioux who burst into the American consciousness in 1969 with his book ''Custer Died for Your Sins'' and later amplified his message through 20 more books about the Native American experience, died on Sunday, a family friend said. He was 72 and lived
 The Rev. Adrian P. Rogers, the three-time president of the Southern Baptist Convention who led a conservative takeover of the powerful denomination that helped usher in a resurgence of conservative Christians on pulpits and in politics, died on Tuesday in Memphis. He was 74. His dea
 Preston Robert Tisch, who with his older brother built a multibillion-dollar business empire and who himself was postmaster general, half-owner of the New York Giants football team and leader of many of the city's top business groups, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 79 and a
 Ralph Edwards, the broadcast pioneer who was the creator and M.C. of two of the most popular shows in entertainment history, ''Truth or Consequences'' and ''This Is Your Life,'' died yesterday at his home in West Hollywood, Calif. He was 92. His death was announced by his publicity 
 Henry Taube, who won a Nobel Prize in Chemistry for describing how electrons hop between molecules during chemical reactions, died on Wednesday at his home on the campus of Stanford University, where he had taught for two decades. He was 89. Stanford announced his death yesterday.  
 Paul Langdon Ward, a historian and former head of the American Historical Association who was president of Sarah Lawrence College in the 1960's, died last Sunday at his retirement home in Gwynedd, Pa. He was 94. The death was announced by his family and on the association's Web site
 Dutch Hiller, one of the three surviving players from the Rangers' 1940 Stanley Cup hockey champions, died Saturday at a hospital in Glendale, Calif. He was 90 and lived in Montrose, Calif. The cause was congestive heart failure, his daughter Patricia Ornelas said. Hiller's 
 Joseph Monserrat, a leader among Puerto Ricans in New York and the continental United States beginning in the days of their mass migration in the 1950's, died last Sunday at a nursing home in Greenwich Village. He was 84 and lived in the Chelsea neighborhood of Manhattan. His family
 Julius C. C. Edelstein, a primary architect of open admissions at the City University of New York in the late 1960's, died on Friday morning at New York Hospital. He was 93. His daughter, Suzy E. E. Edelstein, said the cause was complications of pneumonia. Although he never 
 Red Sarachek, the Yeshiva University basketball coach for a quarter-century who was known for his innovative tactics in a program far from the sport's limelight, died Monday at his home in Deerfield Beach, Fla. He was 93. His death was announced by Yeshiva. Sarachek coached 
 Rutherford Aris, a distinguished chemical engineer who, as the result of a mix-up three decades ago, had a short-lived but supremely accomplished alter ego -- Aris Rutherford -- with an official entry in Who's Who and one of the most enviable jobs in the world, died on Nov. 2 in Edina, Minn
 Hal O. Anger, an electrical engineer in the field of nuclear medicine who invented diagnostic cameras allowing doctors to view metabolic processes occurring inside the human body, died on Oct. 31 at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 85. The cause was heart failure, said his brothe
 Lou Myers, a satiric artist and graphic essayist whose expressive style helped modernize cartoons in advertisements and major American magazines, died yesterday at his home in Cortlandt Manor, N.Y. He was 90. The cause of death was spindle cell carcinoma, said his daughter-in-law Al
 Mike Mikell, whose Upper West Side club, Mikell's, was a vital part of New York City rhythm-and-blues and jazz scenes for two decades, died on Friday in Kingston, N.Y. He was 80 and lived in Woodstock, N.Y. The cause was cancer and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, known and Lou Gehrig
 Steve Belichick, a college football coach and celebrated scout for 43 years and the father of New England Patriots Coach Bill Belichick, died of heart failure Saturday night at his home in Annapolis, Md. He was 86. ''I found out about it the middle of last night,'' Bill Belichick to
 Ben A. Franklin, a former national correspondent for The New York Times, died on Saturday at his home in Garrett Park, Md. He was 78. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. At his death, Mr. Franklin was the editor of The Washington Spectator, a twice-monthly political 
 Conrad B. Duberstein, the chief judge of the United States Bankruptcy Court in Brooklyn since 1984, died on Friday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 90. His death was announced by the court, on which he had continued to serve as chief judge on a year-to-year basis since nominally reti
 Derek Lamb, an Academy Award-winning writer, director and producer of animated films, died on Nov. 5 in Poulsbo, Wash., where he was visiting a friend. He was 69 and lived in Cambridge, Mass. The cause was cancer, said Janet Perlman, Mr. Lamb's former wife and a longtime collaborato
 John Campo, a New York-based trainer for three decades who saddled Pleasant Colony, the winner of the 1981 Kentucky Derby and Preakness Stakes, died on Nov. 13 at his home in Hewlett, N.Y. He was 67. His death was announced by his son Paul, who said he had been treated for diabetes 
 Link Wray, a rockabilly guitarist whose raw sound and inventive techniques influenced musicians from the early days of rock 'n' roll into the punk era, died on Nov. 5 at his home in Copenhagen. He was 76. The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Olive. With a guitar sound
 Hugh Sidey, who became intoxicated with journalism at his family's tiny Iowa newspaper and went on to carve out a career as Time magazine's chronicler of the American presidency, died in Paris on Monday. He was 78. Mr. Sidey died, apparently of a heart attack, at a restaurant during
 Paul Roazen, a political scientist and chronicler of the development of psychoanalysis who explored Sigmund Freud's complex relationships with his family, students and adherents, died Nov. 3 at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 69. The cause was complications of Crohn's disease, h
 Chris Whitley, an innovative songwriter and guitarist who played traditional blues as well as hybrids made with the sounds of electronic dance music, died on Sunday at a friend's home near Houston. He was 45 and lived in New York. The cause was lung cancer, said his brother, Daniel.
 James King, an American heldentenor whose bright, ringing voice and fluent high notes captivated critics and audiences in leading European opera houses in the 1960's, died on Sunday in Naples, Fla., where he had retired. He was 80. The cause was a heart attack, according to Indiana 
 Joseph J. Thorndike, a former managing editor of Life magazine who in 1954 helped found American Heritage magazine, died Tuesday at his home in Harwich, Mass. He was 92. The cause was congestive heart failure and complications of Alzheimer's disease, his son John said. Mr. T
 Kingsbury Browne, a prominent Boston tax lawyer and outdoorsman whose initiative and knowledge of land trusts spared large and small swaths of the American landscape from headlong development, died on Nov. 11 in Kennebunk, Me. He was 82 and lived in Kennebunkport. The cause was pneu
 Ronald S. Rivlin, an applied mathematician who conducted pioneering studies of the elastic properties of rubber and other materials and developed formulas to explain their behavior, died on Oct. 4 at his home in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 90. His death was confirmed by his family. Dr.
 Frank Gatski, the Hall of Fame center on the Cleveland Browns teams that played in 10 consecutive professional football championship games in the decade after World War II, died Tuesday at a nursing home in Morgantown, W.Va. He was 84. His death was announced by his daughter Anne Ha
 George Best, an Irish soccer star who captivated the public with his flamboyant skill on the field and his playboy exploits off it, died yesterday in London after a long struggle with alcohol abuse. He was 59. Best was hospitalized in 2000 for a liver condition and had a liver trans
 Ed Peterson, who prowled the deserts, mountains and meadows of Southern California, often on his hands and knees, to collect wildflower seeds as part of a foundation's mission to preserve the area's native flora, died on Nov. 14 at a nursing home in Los Angeles. He was 100. The deat
 Cornelius W. Owens, a longtime employee of AT&T who was president of its subsidiary, the New York Telephone Company, during one of its most trying periods, died Nov. 14 in Atlanta. He was 92. The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, his family said. Mr. Owens joined AT&T after coll
 George Taylor Conklin Jr., a former chief executive of the Guardian Life Insurance Company of America, died on Nov. 4 at his home in Port Washington, N.Y. He was 90. His death was announced by Guardian Life, one of the country's oldest and largest life insurance companies, which is 
 Harry Joe Brown Jr., a real estate executive whose birth into Hollywood royalty presaged the pizazz he generated by enlisting 34 leading architects to design one house each for a Hamptons residential development, died on Wednesday at his Manhattan home. He was 71. The cause was comp
 Maurice Sanford Paprin, a retired New York builder and property owner with another life as a liberal social activist, died on Friday at NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell hospital in Manhattan. He was 85 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause was an injury sustaine
 Michael E. Vacek, a lawyer widely considered one of the most influential lobbyists in Albany, died there on Saturday. He was 53. Mr. Vacek died in a hospital of injuries from an automobile accident on Friday evening. His death was confirmed by his firm, Vacek, Harris & McCormack.   
 Stan Berenstain, who with his wife, Jan, churned out more than 250 books showing how the warm and fuzzy Berenstain Bears -- Mama, Papa, Brother and Sister -- confronted and learned from life's little crises, died on Saturday in Doylestown, Pa. He was 82. The cause was lymphoma, Mrs.
 Vic Power, the stylish-fielding first baseman who was one of the first Latino stars in the major leagues in the decade after World War II, died yesterday at a hospital in Bayamón, P.R. He was 78. The cause was cancer, his sister Carmen Pellot Power told The Associated Press.       
