 Craig Hugh Smyth, an art historian who drew attention to the importance of conservation and the recovery of purloined art and cultural objects, died on Dec. 22 in Englewood, N.J. He was 91 and lived in Cresskill, N.J. The cause was a heart attack, his daughter, Alexandra, said.     
 Dennis Linde, an influential and publicity-shy country songwriter who composed Elvis Presley's soulful 1972 hit ''Burning Love'' and the Dixie Chicks' mordantly humorous 1999 anthem ''Goodbye Earl,'' died on Dec. 22 in Nashville. He was 63. The cause was idiopathic pulmonary fibrosi
 Johnny Gibson, a former world-record holder in the 400-meter hurdles and a highly successful track coach at Seton Hall University for 26 years, died Friday in a nursing home in Newton, N.J. He was 101. His death was announced by his son Thomas. Gibson's best year as an athle
 Sydney Charles Wooderson, a British lawyer who held the world record for the mile and whose athletic career was interrupted in its prime by World War II, died Dec. 21 in a nursing home in Wareham, in the south of England. He was 92. His death was confirmed by Pat Calnan, an official
 Itche Goldberg, a champion of Yiddish who wrote and edited and taught his beloved language in the face of all those who said keeping Yiddish alive was a lost cause, died last Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 102. He died of complications of cancer, his son, David, said.   
 Teddy Kollek, who as mayor of Jerusalem for nearly three decades did more to build and develop the city as Israel's capital than any other figure while promoting coexistence with a sometimes hostile Arab population, died Tuesday in Jerusalem. He was 95. The Jerusalem Foundation, the
 Bud Delp, the Hall of Fame thoroughbred trainer who saddled the brilliant colt Spectacular Bid, the winner of the Kentucky Derby and the Preakness in 1979, died last Friday in Ellicott City, Md. He was 74. The cause was cancer, the Maryland Jockey Club said. In his 44 years 
 Garry Betty, who built the EarthLink Corporation from a struggling start-up into a public company that took on telecommunications giants, died Tuesday in Atlanta. He was 49. The cause was heart problems associated with adrenal cortical cancer, said Scott Hobby, a business associate 
 Seymour Martin Lipset, who ignored family pressure to be a dentist and instead became a pre-eminent sociologist, political scientist and incisive theorist on American uniqueness, died on Dec. 31 in Arlington, Va. He was 84. The cause was a stroke, his wife, Sydnee, said. Mr.
 Vincent Sardi Jr., who owned and managed Sardi's restaurant, his father's theater-district landmark, for more than half a century and became, by wide agreement, the unofficial mayor of Broadway, died yesterday at a hospital in Berlin, Vt.. He was 91 and had lived in Warren, Vt., since retir
 A. Richard Newton, a pioneer in electronic design technology who directly influenced the industry as well as being a mentor to countless engineering students, died on Tuesday in San Francisco. He was 55. The cause was pancreatic cancer, according to the University of California, Ber
 Bernard D. Meltzer, a law professor who helped bring clarity to labor-management issues at a time of great change in the field, who was a prosecutor at the Nuremberg war crimes trials and who helped draft the United Nations Charter, died Thursday at his home in Chicago. He was 92. T
 C. Harry Falk, the chief executive and president of the New York Board of Trade, died Wednesday. He was 66 and lived in Rockland County in New York. The exchange announced his death but did not disclose a cause. Mr. Falk was named chief executive and president of the exchang
 Jack E. Myers, a molecular biologist who not only researched algae as a food source that could be grown in space but also made science comprehensible to youngsters as an editor of Highlights for Children magazine, died Dec. 28 at his home in Austin, Tex. He was 93. The cause was can
 Cole Campbell, one of the first newspaper editors to embrace the idea that journalism should help readers be engaged citizens, died Friday in Reno, Nev., when his vehicle flipped on an icy road. Mr. Campbell, 53, was on his way to the Reno campus of the University of Nevada, where h
 Daniel R. Raichel, a mechanical engineer and an expert on acoustics who studied how sound travels in symphony halls and across industrial workplaces and wrote a leading textbook on the subject, died on Dec. 22 in El Cajon, Calif. He was 71. The cause was melanoma, his family said.  
 Ira D. Wallach, a New York philanthropist who for many years was the chief executive of Central National-Gottesman Inc., the world's largest private marketer of pulp, paper and newsprint, died on Saturday at the White Plains Hospital Center. He was 97 and lived in Scarsdale. His dea
 John McN. Sieburth, a fiercely independent scientist whose research on turkeys led him to penguins, which in turn led him to help identify infinitesimal oceanic organisms that appear to be the most abundant on earth, died on Dec. 7 in West Kingston, R.I. He was 79. The cause was com
 Momofuku Ando, who -- to the delight of dormitory students and other kitchen-resistant customers worldwide -- invented those small packets of preflavored dried noodles that require just a three-minute boil, died Friday at a hospital in Osaka, Japan. Mr. Ando, the founder of the Nissin Food 
 Iwao Takamoto, the artist who created the mystery-solving Great Dane, Scooby-Doo, among many other indelible cartoon characters, died on Monday in Los Angeles. He was 81. The cause was a heart attack, suffered at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center. He was in the hospital for another ailmen
 Carlo Ponti, the influential film producer whose vast body of work encompassed Italian realism, French New Wave and Hollywood fluff but who etched his name in popular legend by defying law and church to marry Sophia Loren, died on Tuesday in Geneva. He was 94. He had been hospitaliz
 James C. Weeks, a former president and chief operating officer of The New York Times Regional Media Group and a former publisher of The Press Democrat of Santa Rosa, died Monday in New York. He was 64 and had homes in Atlanta and Aspen, Colo. Mr. Weeks died unexpectedly on a trip to
 Martin D. Kruskal, a mathematician whose wide-ranging research touched on astrophysics, nuclear fusion and the soliton, a unique form of wave that he helped describe in the 1960s, died Dec. 26 in Princeton, N.J. He was 81. The cause was a stroke, his family said. Working on 
 Robert Anton Wilson, an author of ''The Illuminatus! Trilogy'' -- a mind-twisting science-fiction series about a secret global society that has been a cult classic for more than 30 years -- died on Thursday at his home in Capitola, Calif. He was 74. His death was confirmed by his da
 Wilson Hulme, an energetic promoter of the stamp collecting hobby and philatelic curator of the Smithsonian's National Postal Museum in Washington, died on Wednesday in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 60. The cause was a heart attack, said Allison Gallaway, a spokeswoman for the museum
 Yury A. Golubev, a founder of Yukos Oil, the former energy giant once led by Mikhail B. Khordokovsky, died sometime last weekend in London. He was 64. A Yukos representative confirmed that a visitor to Mr. Golubev's London apartment discovered his body on Monday. A post-mortem confi
 A. I. Bezzerides, whose gritty, often savage depictions of long-distance truckers, weary waitresses and others of the American proletariat appeared in taut, nimble novels and grimly expressive movies inhabited by the likes of Humphrey Bogart, died on Jan. 1 in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 
 Michael Brecker, a saxophonist who won 11 Grammy Awards and was among the most influential musicians in jazz since the 1960s, died yesterday at a hospital in New York City. He was 57 and lived in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y. The cause of death was leukemia, said Darryl Pitt, his manager
 Michael Brecker, a saxophonist who won 11 Grammy Awards and was among the most influential musicians in jazz since the 1960s, died on Saturday in New York. He was 57 and lived in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y. The cause was leukemia, said Darryl Pitt, his manager. Having taken a d
 Bradford Washburn, an explorer and cartographer who, as director of the Museum of Science in Boston, led a landmark mapping of the Grand Canyon, died on Wednesday at his home in Lexington, Mass. He was 96. His death was confirmed by his family. An accomplished mountaineer, p
 Elkan R. Blout, a biochemist and top science administrator at Harvard whose career included color film developing and sharpening research standards at the Food and Drug Administration, died Dec. 20 in Boston. He was 87. The cause was pneumonia, his family said. In the 1950s,
 Benny Parsons, a popular champion auto racer who became a home-spun analyst for Nascar's nationally televised races, died yesterday in Charlotte, N.C. He was 65 and lived in Ellerbe, N.C. The cause was complications of lung cancer, according to Performance Racing Network, with which
 Bo Yibo, the last of the Eight Immortals, Communist Party leaders who steered China through a politically volatile shift from Maoism to today's market-oriented economic boom, died Monday. He was 98. His death was announced Tuesday evening by the official news agency Xinhua. 
 John W. Simpson, a former top executive and engineer for the Westinghouse Electric Corporation who played a major role in developing the nation's first commercial nuclear power plant and its first nuclear-powered submarine, the U.S.S. Nautilus, died Jan. 4 near his home on Hilton Head Islan
 Bob Zawoluk, an all-American center at St. John's in the early 1950s who became the university's longtime career scoring leader, and then endured a troubled life far from the basketball spotlight, died Jan. 9 in Spring Valley, N.Y. He was 76. The cause was a heart attack, his daught
 Thomas A. Lyson, an influential sociologist at Cornell who argued that rural towns and small farms could survive economically by selling locally produced goods to regional markets, died on Dec. 28 in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 58. The cause was cancer, his family said. Dr. Lyson ex
 Art Buchwald, who satirized the follies of the rich, the famous and the powerful for half a century as the most widely read newspaper humorist of his time, died Wednesday night in Washington. He was 81. The cause was kidney failure, said his son, Joel. Mr. Buchwald, long a pillar of
 Ron Carey, the pint-sized, round-faced comic best known as the unjustifiably cocky Police Officer Carl Levitt on the long-running television situation comedy ''Barney Miller,'' died Tuesday in Los Angeles. He was 71. He died of a stroke at a hospital near his home, a nephew, Michael
 Curt Dempster, a founder and the artistic director of the Ensemble Studio Theater, a New York institution that has served as an incubator for thousands of new American plays, was found dead yesterday morning in his apartment in Greenwich Village. He was 71. David Gersten, a spokesma
 Denny Doherty, a founding member of the 1960s folk-pop band the Mamas and the Papas, died yesterday at his home in Mississauga, Ontario. He was 66. The cause was not immediately known, his daughter Emberly said. But she said her father had recently suffered kidney failure after surg
 Richard A. Musgrave, an economist who has been called the father of modern public finance, died Monday in Santa Cruz, Calif. He was 96. He died of natural causes, said his wife, Peggy Brewer Musgrave, also an economist. Mr. Musgrave took about 20 years to conceive, write and
 Robert Noortman, a gregarious, risk-taking dealer who was a major force in the market for old master and French Impressionist paintings, died on Sunday at his castle in the Belgian countryside, just over the border from his base in Maastricht, the Netherlands. He was 60. Caldwell Do
 James Hillier, a physicist and inventor who helped develop an early and commercially successful electron microscope for RCA and then found ways to apply it for medical research, died last Monday in Princeton, N.J. He was 91. The cause was a stroke, his family said. In 1938, 
 Abbé Pierre, who in the 1950s as a gaunt priest with a crook-handled cane and a profoundly persuasive passion mobilized France to attend to its homeless, then kept pressing his crusade until he became known as the country's moral compass, died yesterday in Paris. He was 94. The cau
 E. Howard Hunt, a cold warrior for the Central Intelligence Agency who left the spy service in disillusionment, joined the Nixon White House as a secret agent and bungled the break-in at the Watergate that brought the president down in disgrace, died Tuesday in Miami. He was 88. His
 Ryszard Kapuscinski, a globe-trotting journalist from Poland whose writing, often tinged with magical realism, brought him critical acclaim and a wide international readership, died yesterday in Warsaw. He was 74. His death, at a hospital, was reported by PAP, the Polish news agency
 Helmut K. Wimmer, whose vivid depictions of twirling planets, glowing comets, pulsing nebulas and space-bending black holes awed thousands of visitors craning their necks under the dome of the old Hayden Planetarium for more than 30 years, died on March 20, 2006, near his home in Stuart, Fl
 James B. Farley, an executive who moved seamlessly between the worlds of management consulting and corporate America, died on Saturday at his home in Gulf Stream, Fla. He was 76. Mr. Farley died after a prolonged illness, according to Booz Allen Hamilton, the consulting firm that Mr
 Mendy Samstein, who left graduate school to put himself in the forefront of the fight for black voting rights in Mississippi, enduring bombings and beatings in the crucial summer of 1964, died yesterday at his home in New Lisbon, N.Y. He was 68. The cause was carcinoid cancer, his w
 Daniel Stern, who sifted through his careers in jazz and symphonic music, advertising, movies and academia for psychic grist for the bittersweet, tightly crafted novels and short stories that were his crowning achievement, died Wednesday in Houston. He was 79. The cause was complica
 John W. Lavelle, the assemblyman for the 61st District and chairman of the Democratic Party on Staten Island, died Wednesday. He was 57. His death, at Richmond University Medical Center, followed a stroke, said Marlene Markoe-Boyd, a spokeswoman for the family. Mr. Lavelle, 
 Carlos Lezama, who as president of the West Indian American Day Carnival Association transformed a Brooklyn block party into the city's largest parade, with millions of spectators lining two miles of Eastern Parkway each Labor Day to enjoy throbbing steel-pan bands, ostrich-plumed dancers a
 Dan Christensen, an abstract painter best known for his unfettered use of color in various styles, including Color Field painting and lyrical abstraction, died last Saturday in East Hampton, N.Y. He was 64. The cause was heart failure due to polymyositis, a muscle disease, said his 
 Donald E. Osterbrock, an astronomer and historian of science who studied the birth of stars and luminous clouds of gas at the core of galaxies outside the Milky Way and wrote an influential textbook about the subject, died on Jan. 11 in Santa Cruz, Calif. He was 82. The cause was a 
 Dr. Lyman C. Wynne, a psychiatrist and psychologist whose research helped lay the foundation for family-based therapies for mental disorders, died on Jan. 17 in Bethesda, Md. He was 83. The cause was cancer, his daughter Christine Wynne said. Dr. Wynne's studies of families 
 Dale E. Noyd, who as a decorated Air Force captain and fighter pilot attracted worldwide attention in the 1960s as a conscientious objector who objected to only one war, the one in Vietnam, died Jan. 11 in Seattle. He was 73. The cause was complications of emphysema, his son, Erik, 
 Gump Worsley, the pudgy but agile Hall of Fame goaltender who spent a decade with the Rangers, played on four Stanley Cup championship teams with the Montreal Canadiens and was among the last goalies to play without a mask, died Saturday in Beloeil, Quebec. He was 77. Worsley's deat
 Art Fowler, who became George Steinbrenner's sixth, ninth, 17th and 26th Yankees pitching coach in a turbulent baseball pairing with his often hired and fired manager and drinking buddy Billy Martin, died yesterday in Spartanburg, S.C. He was 84. Fowler's death was announced by his 
 Glen Tetley, an American choreographer long popular in Europe whose pioneering fusion of ballet and modern dance challenged taboos and rattled purists but influenced major companies worldwide, died on Friday in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 80 and also had homes in New York and Rome.        
 The Rev. Robert F. Drinan, the first Roman Catholic priest to become a voting member of Congress, and the first congressman to call for the impeachment of President Richard M. Nixon, died on Sunday in Washington. He was 86. The cause was pneumonia and congestive heart failure, said 
 Bing Devine, who transformed the St. Louis Cardinals and the Mets into World Series champions in the 1960s in a career spanning seven decades as a baseball executive, died Saturday in St. Louis. He was 90. His death was announced by the Cardinals. Devine played only a few ga
 Carter Harman, a composer, music critic, author and record producer, died on Jan. 23 in Stowe, Vt. He was 88 and lived in Waterbury, Vt. His death was announced by his daughter, Lisa Diomande. Mr. Harman's breadth of interests led him to write profiles of jazz greats like Du
 Bernie Friedkin, a native of Brownsville, Brooklyn, who was known as Schoolboy and who as a professional boxer in the late 1930s and early '40s battled many of his opponents to a draw -- including three former lightweight champions -- died Jan. 18 in Brooklyn. He was 89. He died of 
