Edward Sulzberger, a patriarch of the New York real estate industry who was chairman of the board and former president of Sulzberger-Rolfe, died last night at his home in Manhattan. He was 80 years old. Edward Sulzberger, a patriarch of the New York real estate industry who wa
Dr. Eric T. B. Gross, an engineer and educator, died of Parkinson's disease Monday at his home in Schenectady, N.Y. He was 87 years old. Dr. Eric T. B. Gross, an engineer and educator, died of Parkinson's disease Monday at his home in Schenectady, N.Y. He was 87 years old.    
Isaac E. Molho, the co-founder of the Librairie de France in Rockefeller Center, died of heart failure Monday at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 83 years old and lived in Manhattan. Isaac E. Molho, the co-founder of the Librairie de France in Rockefel
Laurence W. Beilenson, a lawyer who helped establish the Screen Actors Guild and other Hollywood unions in the 1930's, died Monday of a stroke. He was 89 and lived in Los Angeles. Laurence W. Beilenson, a lawyer who helped establish the Screen Actors Guild and other Hollywood 
Louis A. Novins, a motion picture executive who tried unsuccessfully to introduce pay television in the 1950's, died after a heart attack Wednesday at George Washington University Medical Center in Washington. He was 79 years old and lived in Falls Church, Va. Louis A. Novins,
Robert O. Fishel, a major league baseball executive for more than 40 years and a Yankee official for 20 years, died yesterday afternoon, after collapsing outside his apartment in Manhattan. He was 74 years old and had been suffering from a respiratory ailment. Robert O. Fishel
The Rev. W. Ralph Ward Jr., a retired bishop of the United Methodist Church and the chaplain at Drew University in Madison, N.J., since 1980, died Tuesday at his home in Convent Station, N.J., after a long illness. He was 79 years old. The Rev. W. Ralph Ward Jr., a retired bis
Bill Roberts, a founder of political consulting and the manager of Ronald Reagan's entry into politics in 1966, died of heart failure Thursday in California after a long battle with diabetes. He was 63 years old. Bill Roberts, a founder of political consulting and the manager 
Dennis Farrell, who gained brief fame as Los Angeles's ''Hermit of Griffith Park'' in the 1950's, died June 12. He was 62. Dennis Farrell, who gained brief fame as Los Angeles's ''Hermit of Griffith Park'' in the 1950's, died June 12. He was 62. Mr. Farrell fought as a
Hermann Cardinal Volk, the former Roman Catholic Bishop of Mainz and an advocate of ecumenism, died today after a lengthy illness, his press office said. He was 84 years old. Hermann Cardinal Volk, the former Roman Catholic Bishop of Mainz and an advocate of ecumenism, died to
James Edgar Broyhill, founder of Broyhill Furniture Industries Inc., and father of former Senator James T. Broyhill, died today. He was 96. James Edgar Broyhill, founder of Broyhill Furniture Industries Inc., and father of former Senator James T. Broyhill, died today. He was 9
John Peet, a reporter who defected to East Germany in 1950 while working for Reuters, died early Wednesday in his sleep after a long illness, relatives and friends said today. John Peet, a reporter who defected to East Germany in 1950 while working for Reuters, died early Wedn
Laurence W. Beilenson, a lawyer who helped establish the Screen Actors Guild and other Hollywood unions in the 1930's, died of a stroke Monday. He was 89 years old and lived in Los Angeles. Laurence W. Beilenson, a lawyer who helped establish the Screen Actors Guild and other 
Philip G. Reed, a reporter and wire service executive for four decades, died of emphysema last Thursday at Waterbury Hospital in Connecticut. He was 79 years old and lived in Southbury, Conn. Philip G. Reed, a reporter and wire service executive for four decades, died of emphy
Eddie (Cleanhead) Vinson, an alto saxophonist and singer who got his start in be-bop and made his career in rhythm and blues, died of a heart attack Saturday at the California Medical Center here. He was 70 years old and had entered the hospital in mid-June for treatment of cancer of 
Johann Baptist Gradl, a former minister in the West German Government who had worked for German reunification, died here Friday after a long illness, city officials said. He was 84 years old. Johann Baptist Gradl, a former minister in the West German Government who had worked 
Richard Stetson Morse, a scientist and inventor with a knack for turning inventions into commercial successes, including high-vacuum machines and frozen orange juice concentrate, died Friday of a heart attack at his summer home in Falmouth, Mass. He was 76 years old and a resident of 
Gustave G. Rosenberg, a lawyer who was chairman of the New York City Board of Higher Education a quarter-century ago during controversies over free college tuition and control of the City University, died of lung cancer yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 88 years old. Mr. Rose
Anton Morris Leader, a director and producer whose work in television included the popular ''Star Trek'' and ''Ironside'' series, died Friday. He was 74 years old. Anton Morris Leader, a director and producer whose work in television included the popular ''Star Trek'' and ''Ir
Bartolomeu Simoes Pereira, the Minister of Planning of Guinea-Bissau, died in a car crash Monday. He was 40 years old. Bartolomeu Simoes Pereira, the Minister of Planning of Guinea-Bissau, died in a car crash Monday. He was 40 years old. Mr. Simoes Pereira had been Pla
Fritz Wiessner, a mountain climber whose active career spanned eight decades and who led difficult ascents until he was nearly 87 years old, died on Sunday from complications after a stroke at his home home in Stowe, Vt. He was 88 years old. Fritz Wiessner, a mountain climber 
Rabbi Joel S. Geffen, a staff member at the Jewish Theological Seminary of America for more than four decades, died Saturday at Roosevelt Hospital after a short illness. He was 85 years old and lived in Manhattan. Rabbi Joel S. Geffen, a staff member at the Jewish Theological 
John Hopkins Heires, an international banker, died of a heart attack Saturday at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 69 years old and lived in Chevy Chase, Md. John Hopkins Heires, an international banker, died of a heart attack Saturday at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda,
Lee Weyer, a National League baseball umpire for the last 26 years, died of a heart attack Monday night in San Mateo, Calif. He was 51 years old. Lee Weyer, a National League baseball umpire for the last 26 years, died of a heart attack Monday night in San Mateo, Calif. He was
Richard D. Burritt, for more than 40 years a reporter, editor and news administrator with The New York Times, died of Alzheimer's disease Friday at St. Mary's Hospital in Waterbury, Conn. He was 84 years old and lived in Southbury, Conn. Richard D. Burritt, for more than 40 ye
Arthur Steig, the founder of an art-supply manufacturing firm whose products are widely used by artists and graphic designers, died of a heart attack Monday at his home in Lakewood, N.J. He was 74 years old. Arthur Steig, the founder of an art-supply manufacturing firm whose p
David T. Wilentz, the New Jersey Attorney General who in 1935 successfully prosecuted Bruno Richard Hauptmann in the Lindbergh kidnapping and later became one of the state's most powerful Democratic politicians, died in his sleep yesterday morning at his home in Long Branch, N.J. He w
Gabriel Dell, who began acting on Broadway as one of the Dead End Kids and went on to a wide-ranging stage and film career, died of leukemia Sunday at his home in North Hollywood, Calif. He was 68 years old. Gabriel Dell, who began acting on Broadway as one of the Dead End Kid
J. Leslie Rollins, a college administrator, died Sunday at O'Bleness Memorial Hospital in Athens, Ohio. He was 84 years old and lived in Athens. J. Leslie Rollins, a college administrator, died Sunday at O'Bleness Memorial Hospital in Athens, Ohio. He was 84 years old and live
James J. Donovan, a lawyer who was president of the Maritime Law Association of the United States from 1978 to 1980, died of cancer Saturday at his home in Harrison, N.Y. He was 73 years old. James J. Donovan, a lawyer who was president of the Maritime Law Association of the U
John Reilly, who served for two decades as Chicago's director of special events, died Sunday in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 89 years old. John Reilly, who served for two decades as Chicago's director of special events, died Sunday in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 89 years old.
Kenneth B. Willson, former president of the National Better Business Bureau, died of heart failure Monday at Boca Raton Community Hospital in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 90 years old. Kenneth B. Willson, former president of the National Better Business Bureau, died of heart failur
Walter Bailey, owner of the Memphis motel where the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was killed April 4, 1968, died Saturday. He was 73 years old. Walter Bailey, owner of the Memphis motel where the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was killed April 4, 1968, died Saturday. He was
Bela Bartok Jr., left, and Peter Bartok, right, sons of the composer Bela Bartok, with an unidentified woman at a funeral ceremony yesterday in Budapest before the composer's remains were buried. Bartok, who left Hungary in 1940 and died of leukemia in New York in 1945, had been burie
Frank Wille, a banker who had been chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and New York Superintendent of Banks, died of a heart attack Wednesday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 57 years old. Frank Wille, a banker who had been chairman of the Federal Depos
Dr. Sterling A. Callisen, an art historian and former president of the Parsons School of Design, died of pneumonia last Saturday at his home in Andover, Mass. He was 89 years old. Dr. Sterling A. Callisen, an art historian and former president of the Parsons School of Design, 
Alfred Reginald Allen, who had a long career as an assistant general manager at the Metropolitan Opera and as the executive director of operations for Lincoln Center, died last Sunday in Washington. He was 83 years old. Alfred Reginald Allen, who had a long career as an assist
C. Jared Ingersoll, a former railroad executive and Philadelphia civic leader, died yesterday in his sleep in Dunwoody Village, a retirement home in New Town Square, Pa. He was 94 years old. C. Jared Ingersoll, a former railroad executive and Philadelphia civic leader, died ye
Evert Clark, a reporter who specialized in aviation, science and space, died Thursday after surgery for an aneurism at Montgomery General Hospital in Olney, Md. He was 62 years old. Evert Clark, a reporter who specialized in aviation, science and space, died Thursday after sur
Ray Barbuti, who won two gold medals in track for the United States in the 1928 Olympics and was for many years one of the leading officials in Eastern college football, died yesterday in Pittsfield, Mass., after a long illness. He was 83 years old. Ray Barbuti, who won two go
Heinz Rehfuss, a distinguished Swiss bass-baritone known for his musicianship and for his interpretation of music by such modern masters as Hindemith, Stravinsky and Frank Martin, died of cancer June 27 in Buffalo. He was 71 years old. Heinz Rehfuss, a distinguished Swiss bass
Dr. John D. Clark, a chemist who specialized in storable liquid rocket fuels, died Wednesday at St. Clare's Hospital in Denville, N.J., after a long illness. He was 80 years old and lived in Newfoundland, N.J. Dr. John D. Clark, a chemist who specialized in storable liquid roc
Joseph A. Brunton Jr., chief executive of the Boy Scouts of America from 1960 to 1967, died yesterday after a long illness at St. Barnabas Village, a retirement home in Gibsonia, Pa., where he lived. He was 86 years old. Joseph A. Brunton Jr., chief executive of the Boy Scouts
Theodore Frederick Koop, a former vice president of the Columbia Broadcasting System, died Thursday of complications following surgery at Georgetown University Hospital. He was 81 years old. Theodore Frederick Koop, a former vice president of the Columbia Broadcasting System, 
The Rev. Adolf F. Meyer, a retired Lutheran pastor, died Wednesday in Newark. He was 89 years old and lived in Westwood, N.J. The Rev. Adolf F. Meyer, a retired Lutheran pastor, died Wednesday in Newark. He was 89 years old and lived in Westwood, N.J. From 1923 to 1970
David Atlee Phillips, who spent 25 years undercover for the C.I.A. and resigned as chief of Latin American and Caribbean operations to plead the agency's case in print and on the lecture circuit, died Thursday at his home in Bethesda, Md. Mr. Phillips, who had been suffering from canc
Jackie Presser, the president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, the nation's largest union, died last night at a hospital in the Cleveland suburb of Lakewood. He was 61 years old and had been suffering from brain cancer. Jackie Presser, the president of the Intern
Jackie Presser, the president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, the nation's largest union, died late Saturday at a hospital in the Cleveland suburb of Lakewood. He was 61 years old. Jackie Presser, the president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, the 
Richard Schulze-Kossens, an SS officer who was an adjutant to Adolf Hitler for several years, died of lung cancer on July 3, according to the West German newspaper Die Welt. He was 73 years old. Richard Schulze-Kossens, an SS officer who was an adjutant to Adolf Hitler for sev
Abraham S. Jacobson, editor in chief of Medical Tribune and a professor of clinical medicine and pathology at Cornell Medical School, died of pancreatic cancer yesterday at New York Hospital, where he was an attending physician. He was 75 years old and lived in Manhattan. Abra
Anthony Holland, an actor who was known best for his comic performances in theater, film and television, committed suicide early Sunday morning in his apartment in Manhattan, his cousin, Jessica Holland, said. Anthony Holland, an actor who was known best for his comic performa
Should New York stiffen its penalties for hate crimes? Should there be a permanent special state prosecutor for such crimes? After more than a year of study, Governor Cuomo's Task Force on Bias-Related Violence has reached sound conclusions: yes to stiffer penalties, no to the special
Dr. Anthony Lewis Davidson, a surgeon, researcher and educator, died of colon cancer Sunday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 43 years old. Dr. Anthony Lewis Davidson, a surgeon, researcher and educator, died of colon cancer Sunday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 43 years old.  
Emmanuel Manheim, a radio and television writer for Groucho Marx, Frank Sinatra and Art Linkletter, among others, died June 26 at Santa Monica Hospital. He was 90 years old. Emmanuel Manheim, a radio and television writer for Groucho Marx, Frank Sinatra and Art Linkletter, amo
Dr. J. L. Mehta, an Indian philosopher and expert on the German existentialist philosopher Martin Heidegger, died of a heart attack yesterday while visiting Cambridge, Mass. He was 76 years old and lived in Jabalpur, India. Dr. J. L. Mehta, an Indian philosopher and expert on 
Robert Ferro, a writer, died of AIDS yesterday at his father's home in Ho-Ho-Kus, N.J. He was 46 years old and lived in Manhattan. Robert Ferro, a writer, died of AIDS yesterday at his father's home in Ho-Ho-Kus, N.J. He was 46 years old and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Fer
William R. Hamcke, former senior executive vice president and chief financial officer of Irving Trust Company, died of a heart attack Saturday at Stamford Hospital. He was 63 years old and lived in Stamford, Conn. William R. Hamcke, former senior executive vice president and c
Aaron Solomon, a New York lawyer who specialized in labor relations, died of a heart attack yesterday at New York University Hospital. He was 80 years old and lived in Manhattan. Aaron Solomon, a New York lawyer who specialized in labor relations, died of a heart attack yester
Abraham Zeitz, a fund-raiser and former director of development at Yeshiva University, died Saturday of renal failure at John F. Kennedy Medical Center in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 76 years old and lived in South Palm Beach. Abraham Zeitz, a fund-raiser and former director 
Alfred Harvey Wheeler, a social studies teacher in the New York City public school system for 42 years, died yesterday at his home in Huntington, L.I., after a long illness. He was 83 years old. Alfred Harvey Wheeler, a social studies teacher in the New York City public school
Donald C. Blaisdell, a former professor of political science at City College of the City University of New York, died of pneumonia Saturday at the Lorien Nursing Home in Columbia, Md. He was 88 years old and lived in Skaggsville, Md. Donald C. Blaisdell, a former professor of 
Gerald Arthur Fitzgerald, a pioneer in the frozen food industry, died Sunday of congestive heart failure at Sharon Hospital in Sharon, Conn. He was 88 years old and lived in Lakeville. Gerald Arthur Fitzgerald, a pioneer in the frozen food industry, died Sunday of congestive h
Dr. Heinz Joseph Wittig, a pediatrician and head of the allergy division at the Ochsner Clinic, died at his home here Sunday after a long illness. He was 67 years old. Dr. Heinz Joseph Wittig, a pediatrician and head of the allergy division at the Ochsner Clinic, died at his h
Joshua L. Logan, the director of some of Broadway's most enduring and prestigious hits, among them ''South Pacific,'' which won the Pulitzer Prize, and ''Mister Roberts,'' died yesterday afternoon at his Manhattan home. He was 79 years old and had suffered for many years from supranuc
Felix Eyle, a former concertmaster and orchestra manager of the Metropolitan Opera, died of heart failure on July 5 at his home in Hamilton, N.Y. He was 89 years old. Felix Eyle, a former concertmaster and orchestra manager of the Metropolitan Opera, died of heart failure on J
Felix Joachim Freeman Jr., an investment banker in New York, died of brain cancer Saturday at his home in Narragansett, R.I. He was 73 years old. Felix Joachim Freeman Jr., an investment banker in New York, died of brain cancer Saturday at his home in Narragansett, R.I. He was
Hubert P. Luckett, retired vice president and editorial director of Times Mirror Magazines and a former editor-in-chief of Popular Science, died of a brain tumor Sunday at his home in Dobbs Ferry, N. Y., He was 71 years old. Hubert P. Luckett, retired vice president and editor
Matthew Silverman, a labor lawyer, died after a long illness Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 80 years old. Matthew Silverman, a labor lawyer, died after a long illness Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 80 years old. Born in Brooklyn, he graduated from
Prof. Roy M. Nakayama, a horticulturist devoted to breeding chilis, died of lung cancer Monday at Memorial General Hospital in Las Cruces, N.M. He was 64 years old and lived in Las Cruces, his native city. Prof. Roy M. Nakayama, a horticulturist devoted to breeding chilis, die
Dr. Stanley Block Tunick, a lawyer, accountant and educator, died of heart failure on Tuesday at South Nassau Communities Hospital in Oceanside, L.I. He was 88 years old and lived in Palm Beach, Fla. Dr. Stanley Block Tunick, a lawyer, accountant and educator, died of heart fa
Jess T. Adkins, the director of the Schimmel Center for the Arts at Pace University and an actor best known for his work in daytime television series, died of cancer Wednesday at N.Y.U. Medical Center. He was 62 years old. Mr. Adkins was director of the National Theater Institute at t
Raymond W. Goldsmith, an economist who for several decades was a leading authority on national income and wealth, died of heart failure Tuesday at the Whitney Center, a retirement community in Hamden, Conn. He was 83 years old and had lived for many years in New Haven. Raymond
Stephen Reichard, an arts marketing consultant who helped to conceive and lead a major fund-raising campaign for AIDS research in the New York art world, died of cardiac arrest resulting from AIDS on Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 39 years old. Stephen Reichard, an arts
Abraham Pereira, a Wall Street stockbroker, died of cancer yesterday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 76 years old and lived in the Bronx. Abraham Pereira, a Wall Street stockbroker, died of cancer yesterday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 76 years old and liv
Boyd Crumrine Patterson, former president of Washington & Jefferson College of Washington, Pa., died of a stroke Tuesday at his home in Clinton, N.Y. He was 86 years old. Boyd Crumrine Patterson, former president of Washington & Jefferson College of Washington, Pa., died of a 
James Gordon Shanklin, a lawyer and former agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation who directed an exhaustive inquiry into the assassination of President Kennedy, died of cancer Monday at Presbyterian Hospital in Dallas. He was 78 years old and lived in Dallas. James Gord
Robert D. Rodham, a ballet dancer, teacher and choreographer, died on July 14 at Graduate Hospital in Philadelphia. He was 48 years old. The cause of death was AIDS, according to Earl Levit, a friend. Robert D. Rodham, a ballet dancer, teacher and choreographer, died on July 1
Samuel Leroy Mendel, who was turned away from the Army in 1898 because he was too young to enlist but lived to become the nation's oldest veteran, died here Wednesday at the age of 104. Samuel Leroy Mendel, who was turned away from the Army in 1898 because he was too young to 
Dr. Wiktor Weintraub, an educator and author who specialized in Slavic studies, died of cancer on Thursday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 80 years old. Dr. Weintraub held the Alfred Jurzykowski Chair of Slavic Studies at Harvard University from 1971 until his retirement in 197
Charles W. Lubin, founder of the Kitchens of Sara Lee, died Friday at Northwestern Memorial Hospital, apparently after suffering a heart attack while driving. He was 84 years old.  A Chicago native, Mr. Lubin was apprenticed to a baker at the age of 14 in Decatur, Ill. In 1949, he nam
David McKendree Key Sr., a retired Foreign Service officer who served as Ambassador to Burma and Assistant Secretary of State for International Organization Affairs, died Friday of cancer at his home in Lake Wales, Fla. He was 88 years old. David McKendree Key Sr., a retired F
Geoffrey Bruun, a historian and biographer who taught at New York University from 1927 until 1941, died of a kidney ailment on Wednesday at his home in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 89 years old. Geoffrey Bruun, a historian and biographer who taught at New York University from 1927 unti
Charles J. Meyers, a former dean of the Stanford University Law School, died yesterday at his home in Denver. He was 62 years old and had been suffering from throat cancer. Charles J. Meyers, a former dean of the Stanford University Law School, died yesterday at his home in De
David Baker, a pianist and composer of Broadway musical scores, died of lung cancer Saturday at his weekend home on Fire Island, according to a friend and associate, Sylvia Fine Kaye. He was 60 years old and lived in Manhattan. David Baker, a pianist and composer of Broadway m
David McKendree Key Sr., a retired Foreign Service officer who was Ambassador to Burma and Assistant Secretary of State for International Organization Affairs, died of cancer Friday at his home in Lake Wales, Fla. He was 88 years old. David McKendree Key Sr., a retired Foreign
Herbert J. Simins, a former Commissioner of Public Works for New York City, died of cancer yesterday at Queens Hospital Center. He was 59 years old and lived in Fresh Meadows, Queens. Herbert J. Simins, a former Commissioner of Public Works for New York City, died of cancer ye
Lester V. Chandler, an economist, author and adviser to the Federal Government during World War II, died of leukemia Saturday at the Princeton (N.J.) Medical Center. He was 82 years old and lived in Princeton. Lester V. Chandler, an economist, author and adviser to the Federal
Morton Kline, a New York City lawyer and real-estate developer, died Friday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 85 years old and lived in Manhattan. Morton Kline, a New York City lawyer and real-estate developer, died Friday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 85 years old and lived i
Philip Sills, a Russian-born immigrant who manufactured women's sportswear and collected contemporary American art ranging from cartoons to circus posters, died of lung cancer in his Manhattan apartment Saturday. He was 68 years old. Philip Sills, a Russian-born immigrant who 
Seymour C. Lechter, a former executive in the apparel industry, died of cancer yesterday at the New York University Medical Center. He was 66 years old and lived in Manhattan. Seymour C. Lechter, a former executive in the apparel industry, died of cancer yesterday at the New Y
Dr. Bertram Sacktor, an expert in renal biochemistry and a specialist in gerontology, died of an apparent heart attack July 8 near his vacation home in North Solomon, Me. He was 66 years old and lived in Baltimore. Dr. Bertram Sacktor, an expert in renal biochemistry and a spe
Charles A. Bucher, a professor at New York University for 35 years, died of cancer Thursday at the Nathan Adelson Hospice in Las Vegas, Nev. He was 75 years old and lived in Las Vegas. Charles A. Bucher, a professor at New York University for 35 years, died of cancer Thursday 
Frank Gullino, a violinist, died of bladder cancer yesterday at his home in Lido Beach, L.I. He was 73 years old. Frank Gullino, a violinist, died of bladder cancer yesterday at his home in Lido Beach, L.I. He was 73 years old. Mr. Gullino was a violinist with the New 
George Theiner, editor of the Index on Censorship issued by Writers and Scholars International, died of cancer Sunday in London, where he lived. He was 60 years old. George Theiner, editor of the Index on Censorship issued by Writers and Scholars International, died of cancer 
Dr. Herbert Lawrence Anderson, a physicist who was a pioneer in the development of nuclear energy and the atomic bomb, died of berylliosis on Saturday at his home in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 74 years old and had contracted the lung disease in early nuclear experiments with radon and bery
Harold P. Goodbody, who headed Wall Street's fifth-largest stock brokerage firm when it collapsed in a paper-work morass in 1970, died of brain cancer Sunday at the Sweetbrook Nursing Home in Williamstown, Mass. He was 82 years old and for most of his career was a resident of Florham 
John A. B. Faggi, an assistant professor and administrator at Columbia University for more than 30 years, died of emphysema Saturday in St. Luke's Hospital. He was 73 years old and lived in Manhattan. John A. B. Faggi, an assistant professor and administrator at Columbia Unive
John R. May, the executive director of the San Francisco Foundation from 1948 to 1973, died of a heart attack July 13 while vacationing near Ketchum, Idaho. He was 79 years old and lived in San Rafael, Calif, When Mr. May was appointed the first director of the San Francisco Foundatio
Whitfield Connor, an award-winning Broadway actor and longtime theatrical producer in Denver, died of respiratory complications on Saturday in Norwalk (Conn.) Hospital. He was 71 years old, and had recently undergone stomach surgery. Whitfield Connor, an award-winning Broadway
William H. Napier, a Manhattan toy company executive, died Saturday at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center. He had had heart surgery. He was 62 years old and lived in Westfield, N.J. William H. Napier, a Manhattan toy company executive, died Saturday at Columbia Presbyterian 
Charles Welles Buek, an investment banker and former chairman of the United States Trust Company, died of heart failure Monday at his home in Darien, Conn. He was 76 years old. Charles Welles Buek, an investment banker and former chairman of the United States Trust Company, di
Dr. Emil Kaiser, the Patrick E. and Beatrice M. Haggerty Professor at Rockefeller University, died Monday of complications after kidney transplant surgery at Beth Israel Hospital in Boston. He was 50 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Emil Kaiser, the Patrick E. and Beatric
Frank E. Basil, chairman of the board and chief executive officer of Frank E. Basil Inc., an engineering and architectural firm based in Washington, died of a heart attack Sunday while sailing off the coast of Sardinia. He was 75 years old and lived in Washington. Frank E. Bas
Dr. Frederick L. Scarf, an American scientist who was an authority on space plasma physics, died of undetermined causes Sunday at Burdenko Hospital in Moscow. He was part of an international team of scientists conducting experiments associated with two Russian space ventures. He was 5
Irving Goldsmith, former president and chairman emeritus of Bromley Coats Inc., a manufacturer of women's apparel, died Monday at South Nassau Community Hospital in Oceanside, L.I. He was 85 years old and lived in Rockville Centre, L.I. Irving Goldsmith, former president and c
Lewis Bergman, a former editor of The New York Times Magazine, died of pneumonia at New York Hospital yesterday. He was 70 years old and had been ill since February when he began to undergo chemotherapy for lymphoma. Lewis Bergman, a former editor of The New York Times Magazin
Martin J. Walsh, an actor, died of acquired immune deficiency syndrome on July 7 at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 41 years old. Martin J. Walsh, an actor, died of acquired immune deficiency syndrome on July 7 at New York University Medical Center in M
Milton Krims, a screenwriter, died of pneumonia on July 11 at the Motion Picture Country Home and Hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 84 years old and had suffered from Parkinson's disease for many years. Milton Krims, a screenwriter, died of pneumonia on July 11 at the 
Samuel Ruben, a scientist who had no formal education beyond high school but whose inventions led to more than 300 patents, including the alkaline battery now in wide use, died Saturday in Milwaukie, Ore., where he lived in retirement. He was 88 years old and was a longtime resident o
Dr. Geoffrey H. Bourne, an anatomist and expert on primates, died of heart failure Tuesday at Bellevue Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 78 years old and maintained homes in Atlanta and on the island of Grenada. Dr. Geoffrey H. Bourne, an anatomist and expert on primates, d
John W. Galbreath, who raced two Kentucky Derby winners and who owned the Pittsburgh Pirates from 1946 to 1985, died today at his Darby Dan Farm, west of Columbus. He was 90 years old. John W. Galbreath, who raced two Kentucky Derby winners and who owned the Pittsburgh Pirates
Milton Krasner, a cinematographer whose work on the 1954 film ''Three Coins in the Fountain'' earned him an Academy Award, died of heart failure Saturday. He was 84 years old.  The films on which Mr. Krasner worked included ''The Invisible Man,'' ''An Affair to Remember,'' ''All About
Morris A. Kravitz, one of first developers of suburban shopping centers, died Sunday in Lankenau Hospital, Ardmore, Pa., after a long illness. He was 88 years old and lived in Ardmore. Morris A. Kravitz, one of first developers of suburban shopping centers, died Sunday in Lank
Charles W. Millard Jr., retired chairman of the Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company and a former New York State Regent, died Wednesday at Glens Falls (N.Y.) Hospital. He was 83 years old and lived in Schroon Lake. Charles W. Millard Jr., retired chairman of the Manufacture
Dr. Ely Perlman, an allergist who issued daily pollen counts, died Wednesday of respiratory failure at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 74 years old and lived in Roslyn, L.I. Dr. Ely Perlman, an allergist who issued daily pollen counts, died Wednesday 
F. Edward Potter Jr., an educational administrator and headmaster of The Peddie School in Hightstown, N.J., since 1977, died of a heart attack Wednesday at his summer home in Vinalhaven, Me. He was 45 years old and lived in Hightstown. F. Edward Potter Jr., an educational admi
George R. Hickey, who retired as commodore of the Farrell Lines shipping company in 1968, died Tuesday at the Dell Manor Nursing Home in Rockland, Mass., where he lived. He was 84 years old. George R. Hickey, who retired as commodore of the Farrell Lines shipping company in 19
Dr. Harry H. Gordon, a pediatrician who pioneered in the fields of neonatology and child development, died on Wednesday after emergency heart surgery at the Jack D. Weiler Hospital of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in the Bronx. He was 81 years old and lived in Rye, N.Y.     
Jake W. Lindsey, a combat hero of World War II who received the Medal of Honor at a special Congressional ceremony, died of a heart attack Monday at his home in Waynesboro, Miss. He was 67 years old. Mr. Lindsey, then a technical sergeant, was the 100th infantryman awarded the Medal o
James P. O'Neill, a former executive vice president of the Xerox Corporation who retired in 1981, died on Tuesday at Stamford (Conn.) Hospital. He was 67 years old and lived in New Canaan. James P. O'Neill, a former executive vice president of the Xerox Corporation who retired
David Chertok, a leading collector of jazz on film, died of cancer Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 66 years old. David Chertok, a leading collector of jazz on film, died of cancer Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 66 years old. Mr. Chertok created an 
Harold Turk, a former Mayor of Miami Beach, Fla., who is said to have established the city's first social service agency, died of cancer Wednesday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Miami Beach. He was 73 years old and lived in Miami Beach. Harold Turk, a former Mayor of Miami B
Mark Boxer, an editor and cartoonist who drew under the pen name Marc, died of a brain tumor Wednesday at his London home. He was 57 years old. Mark Boxer, an editor and cartoonist who drew under the pen name Marc, died of a brain tumor Wednesday at his London home. He was 57 
Dr. Bernard C. Meyer, a Manhattan psychiatrist and psychoanalyst whose affiliation with Mount Sinai Hospital spanned more than 40 years, died Friday night at his home after a lengthy illness. He was 78 years old and lived on the Upper East Side. Dr. Bernard C. Meyer, a Manhatt
Luigi Lucioni, a realist painter known for his landscapes and portraits, died Friday at his home in Greenwich Village. He was 87 years old. Luigi Lucioni, a realist painter known for his landscapes and portraits, died Friday at his home in Greenwich Village. He was 87 years ol
Major Robinson, a journalist and public relations figure who helped originate Jet magazine, the Johnson Publishing Company's pocket-sized weekly, died Tuesday at Veterans Hospital in Manhattan. He was 70 years old and lived in Manhattan. Major Robinson, a journalist and public
Justice Theodore Dachenhausen Jr. of State Supreme Court in Westchester died Friday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center after a long illness. He was 63 years old and lived in Katonah, N.Y. Justice Theodore Dachenhausen Jr. of State Supreme Court in Westchester died Frida
Dr. Calvin A. VanderWerf, an educator, former president of Hope (Mich.) College and professor of chemistry at the University of Florida, died last Tuesday at Alachua General Hospital in Gainesville, Fla. He was 71 years old and lived in Gainesville. Dr. Calvin A. VanderWerf, a
Charles S. Krakauer, an engineer who was instrumental in the introduction of the first hand-held calculator in 1971, died of lung cancer on July 15 at the Newton-Wellesley (Mass.) Hospital. He was 58 years old and lived in Weston, Mass. Charles S. Krakauer, an engineer who was
Dr. Heinz R. Pagels, a physicist and popularizer of science and executive director of the New York Academy of Sciences, died Sunday in Colorado in a mountaineering accident. He was 49 years old. Dr. Heinz R. Pagels, a physicist and popularizer of science and executive director
Jack Rechtzeit, an actor in the Yiddish theater for more than 60 years, died Sunday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. He was 85 years old and lived in Manhattan. Jack Rechtzeit, an actor in the Yiddish theater for more than 60 years, died Sunday at Beth Israel Hospital in 
James W. Silver, a professor of American history at the University of Mississippi for more than 30 years whose outspokenly liberal views on racial equality stirred controversy throughout that state, died of complications from emphysema yesterday in Tampa, Fla. He was 81 years old.    
Former Representative Robert N. McClory, a 10-term Republican from the Chicago suburbs and a key figure in the impeachment proceedings against Richard M. Nixon, died Sunday at Georgetown University Medical Center after a heart attack. He was 80 years old and lived in Washington and Gu
Stephen J. Jarema, a lawyer and former New York State Assemblyman who was active in the Ukrainian-American community, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 83 years old. Stephen J. Jarema, a lawyer and former New York State Assemblyman who was active in the Ukrainian
Walter B. D. Hickey, a men's clothing manufacturer, died of cancer Sunday at his home in Rochester. He was 82 years old. Walter B. D. Hickey, a men's clothing manufacturer, died of cancer Sunday at his home in Rochester. He was 82 years old. Mr. Hickey, who graduated f
Alfred W. Barth, an international banker and former executive vice president of Chase Manhattan Bank, died of a heart attack Monday at his home in Manhasset, L.I. He was 85 years old. Alfred W. Barth, an international banker and former executive vice president of Chase Manhatt
Fazlur Rahman, an author and leading scholar in Islamic studies, died of complications after heart surgery yesterday in Chicago. He was 68 years old and lived in Naperville, Ill. Fazlur Rahman, an author and leading scholar in Islamic studies, died of complications after heart
Fridolf Johnson, an author, illustrator and the editor of American Artists magazine until he retired in the 1970's, died after a heart attack last Tuesday in Benedictine Hospital in Kingston, N.Y. He was 83 years old and lived in Woodstock, N.Y. Fridolf Johnson, an author, ill
Jack Clark, the announcer for NBC's popular television game show ''Wheel of Fortune,'' died of bone cancer at St. Joseph's Medical Center in Burbank last Thursday. He was 62 years old. Jack Clark, the announcer for NBC's popular television game show ''Wheel of Fortune,'' died 
Joseph Sacco, an advertising man who created several imaginative campaigns in the 1960's, including the Ajax ''White Knight'' and the Lord Calvert whisky ''Man of Distinction,'' died of lung cancer on Sunday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 67 years old. Joseph Sacco, an adv
Sheldon Tibbetts Mills, a former United States ambassador to Ecuador, Afghanistan and Jordan, died of heart failure last Wednesday at the Valle Verde Retirement Community complex where he lived with his wife. He was 83 years old. Mr. Mills was appointed a United States Foreign Service
Dr. Theodore S. Drachman, a public health official and an author, died of cardiac arrest July 13 at his home in Philmont, N.Y. He was 83 years old. Dr. Theodore S. Drachman, a public health official and an author, died of cardiac arrest July 13 at his home in Philmont, N.Y. He
Carter Cooper, who leaped to his death from the penthouse apartment of his mother, Gloria Vanderbilt, was eulogized yesterday as a young man who moved through life with grace, affirming ideals and principles he believed in. Carter Cooper, who leaped to his death from the penth
Burton M. Strauss, a Wall Street stockbroker for six decades, died of complications from malignant tumors of the bone marrow Sunday at New York Hospital. He was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan. Burton M. Strauss, a Wall Street stockbroker for six decades, died of complicat
Duane L. Jones, a director and actor, died Friday in Winthrop University Hospital in Mineola, L.I. He was 51 years old and lived in Westbury, L.I. Duane L. Jones, a director and actor, died Friday in Winthrop University Hospital in Mineola, L.I. He was 51 years old and lived i
George F. Butterick, a lecturer in English and curator of the Literary Archives at the University of Connecticut, died of cancer Monday at his home in Willimantic, Conn. He was 45 years old. George F. Butterick, a lecturer in English and curator of the Literary Archives at the
John McCook Roots, a foreign correspondent and author, died Tuesday at Mackinac Straits Hospital in St. Ignace, Mich. He was 84 years old. John McCook Roots, a foreign correspondent and author, died Tuesday at Mackinac Straits Hospital in St. Ignace, Mich. He was 84 years old.
Dr. R. I. Wilfred Westgate, who for 22 years was the headmaster of St. Bernard's School, a private day school for boys on East 98th Street, died of lung cancer yesterday at his house in Chatham, Mass. He was 83 years old and had lived in Chatham since retiring in 1971. Dr. R. 
Dr. Ralph Daniel Junker, a surgeon, died of a heart attack last Thursday at Southampton (L.I.) Hospital, where he had been a member of the staff from 1958 to 1978. He was 65 years old and lived in Tryon, N.C. Dr. Ralph Daniel Junker, a surgeon, died of a heart attack last Thur
Samuel Huntington, a lawyer and electric utility executive, was killed by lightning Tuesday in Aspen, Colo., while hiking. He was 49 years old and lived in Newton, Mass. Samuel Huntington, a lawyer and electric utility executive, was killed by lightning Tuesday in Aspen, Colo.
Francis C. Gannon, a retired ship-supply executive, died of a heart attack Tuesday at the Princeton (N.J.) Medical Center. He was 76 years old and lived in Jamesburg, N.J. Francis C. Gannon, a retired ship-supply executive, died of a heart attack Tuesday at the Princeton (N.J.
Frank Zamboni, who invented an ice resurfacer that became a sort of mechanical celebrity for hockey fans, died today after a heart attack. He was 87. Frank Zamboni, who invented an ice resurfacer that became a sort of mechanical celebrity for hockey fans, died today after a he
Dr. Howard Bernhardt Adelmann, a zoologist, educator and author, died of arteriosclerosis Monday at his home in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 90 years old. Dr. Howard Bernhardt Adelmann, a zoologist, educator and author, died of arteriosclerosis Monday at his home in Ithaca, N.Y. He was
Hans Nadelhoffer, the president of Christie's in Geneva, died yesterday in Geneva. He was 48 years old. Hans Nadelhoffer, the president of Christie's in Geneva, died yesterday in Geneva. He was 48 years old. Mr. Nadelhoffer died of pneumonia at the Cantonal Hospital, a
Harold Ross Harris, a retired Air Force brigadier general and one of the nation's most distinguished pilots, died of pneumonia and other complications yesterday at his home in Falmouth, Mass. He was 92 years old. Harold Ross Harris, a retired Air Force brigadier general and on
Richard S. Nye, chairman emeritus of Georgeson & Company, and a former ocean-racing yachtsman, died Tuesday in Greenwich, Conn., after a long illness. He was 85 years old and lived in Greenwich. Richard S. Nye, chairman emeritus of Georgeson & Company, and a former ocean-racin
William Carter, a dancer and choreographer, died of AIDS on Thursday at Mt. Sinai Hospital. He was 56 years old and lived in Manhattan. William Carter, a dancer and choreographer, died of AIDS on Thursday at Mt. Sinai Hospital. He was 56 years old and lived in Manhattan.      
Edward Martin Roginski, the president of marketing for MCA-Universal Pictures, died on Thursday at his home in North Hollywood, Calif. He was 44 years old. His longtime companion, Thomas Yaros, said he died of AIDS. Edward Martin Roginski, the president of marketing for MCA-Un
Frank Zamboni, who invented an ice resurfacer that became a sort of mechanical celebrity for hockey fans, died today after a heart attack. He was 87 years old. Frank Zamboni, who invented an ice resurfacer that became a sort of mechanical celebrity for hockey fans, died today 
James P. Farrell, a lawyer who served for many years as counsel to the Cities Service Company, died of Parkinson's disease Wednesday at his home in Montclair, N.J. He was 85 years old. James P. Farrell, a lawyer who served for many years as counsel to the Cities Service Compan
John G. Edwards, a tea importer and businessman, died of a heart attack Tuesday at Little Falls (N.Y.) General Hospital. He was 51 years old and lived in Smithtown, L.I. John G. Edwards, a tea importer and businessman, died of a heart attack Tuesday at Little Falls (N.Y.) Gene
Peter I. B. Lavan, retired senior partner of the Manhattan law firm of Stroock & Stroock & Lavan, died of heart failure yesterday at his home in Great Barrington, Mass. He was 93 years old. Peter I. B. Lavan, retired senior partner of the Manhattan law firm of Stroock & Strooc
Dr. Eric Werner, a musicologist and an authority on sacred music, died of heart failure Thursday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 87 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Eric Werner, a musicologist and an authority on sacred music, died of heart fa
