 The call crackled over the voice pager at about 8 P.M. on Sept. 11: ''Two down, GSW!'' George Washington Bridge? The ambulance corps volunteer, accustomed to treating the bee stings and broken legs of suburban Chappaqua, N.Y., was puzzled. Then he raced out of his well-appointed home, sudde
 Arthur F. Quern, chairman of the Illinois Board of Higher Education and a former aide to Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller and President Gerald R. Ford, died on Wednesday in the crash of a corporate jet that was taking off from an airfield north of Chicago. Three others, all crew members, also die
 J. Edward Day, the wisecracking Cabinet officer who gave the nation a million laughs and the five-digit ZIP code as Postmaster General for three ebullient years, died on Tuesday in Hunt Valley, Md. He was 82 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md., 20815, as it has been known since Mr. Day inaugurate
 Marcel Carne, the French movie director whose 1945 classic, ''Les Enfants du Paradis,'' became one of the most loved and admired films of all time, died today at a hospital in the Paris suburb of Clamart. He was 90. Mr. Carne, whose best work was done between the mid-1930's and the 
 William Rosenwald, who gave and raised millions of dollars in a life dominated by philanthropy that saved tens of thousands of lives and bettered countless others through education and the arts, died yesterday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 93. Mr. Rosenwald
 J. R. Jayewardene, a former President of Sri Lanka who modernized and reshaped the country politically and was later criticized for his handling of ethnic tensions at its most critical moments, died yesterday in Colombo. He was 90. Junius Richard Jayewardene -- who was always known 
 Michael Burnett, a career swindler whose work as a Government informer helped expose major municipal corruption in New York City and Chicago, died on Thursday at a Federal prison in Georgia, where he was serving a life sentence for masterminding a murder. Mr. Burnett, who was 67, wa
 The Rev. Bernard George Holmes, a Benedictine educator who was credited with doubling the size of St. Anselm College in Manchester, N.H., died on Oct. 24 at Catholic Medical Center in Manchester. A monk at St. Anselm Abbey, he was 82. He suffered a brief illness, the college announc
 C. Brett Boocock Jr., a former headmaster of the Buckley School in Manhattan, died on Oct. 22 at his home in Basking Ridge, N.J. He was 66 and also had a home in Mantoloking, N.J. The cause was a massive pulmonary embolism, his family said. Mr. Boocock left Buckley in 1982 a
 Eugene Polyakov, a Russian-trained balletmaster who was Rudolf Nureyev's chief assistant when Nureyev was director of the Paris Opera Ballet in the 1980's, died on Oct. 24 in Paris. No cause of death was given in a report by the newspaper Le Monde. Mr. Polyakov, who was 53, 
 George M. Grover, a nuclear physicist who developed a deceptively simple heat-transfer system that helps devices like satellites and lap-top computers operate more efficiently, died on Oct. 24 at a nursing home in Albuquerque, N.M., where he lived. He was 81. Dr. Grover had Alzheime
 Dr. Harold O. Gulliksen, a psychologist who influenced how America tests people, whether to see how well they can be expected to shoot a naval gun or to perform in college, died last Sunday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 93. Dr. Gulliksen was professor emeritus of psychology 
 John Henderson McNeill, a senior legal adviser in the Defense Department on issues ranging from arms control to matters pending before the World Court in The Hague, died on Oct. 26 in the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center. He was 55 and lived in Washington. He died while await
 Julius Raskin, a retired educator in New York City public schools who worked on programs designed to widen students' horizons, died on Oct. 9 at the Jewish Home and Hospital for the Aged in the Bronx. A former resident of Manhattan, he was 90 and lived in the Bronx. At his retiremen
 Matthew Bailey Miles, a psychologist and theorist on the educational process, died on Oct. 24 at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 69 and lived in Tappan, N.Y. The cause was lymphoma, his family said. Dr. Miles, a former professor of psychology and education at
 Walter N. Ridley, an educator who was ready when the State of Virginia was ordered to integrate its all-white university system in 1950, died on Sept. 26 at his home in West Chester, Pa. He was 86 and had made history in 1953 when he received a Ph.D. from the University of Virginia, becomin
 Jean-Bedel Bokassa, a former colonel who seized power in the Central African Republic and went on to proclaim himself Emperor of his impoverished nation, died on Sunday night, his son Jean Charles announced today in Bangui, the capital. He was 75. The cause was a heart attack, his s
 John M. Cannella, a former Fordham football star who worked his way through law school playing tackle for the New York Giants, then survived the rough and tumble of Tammany Hall politics to spend more than 30 years as a Federal District Court judge in Manhattan, died on Thursday at North Sh
 Jean-Bedel Bokassa, a former colonel who seized power in the Central African Republic and went on to proclaim himself Emperor of his impoverished nation, died on Sunday night, his son Jean Charles announced today in Bangui, the capital. He was 75. The cause was a heart attack, his s
 Dr. Philip J. Fialkow, a leading figure in medical genetics and auto-immune diseases and dean of the School of Medicine at the University of Washington, died along with his wife and three others when their hiking camp in western Nepal was buried by a sudden snowstorm. The deaths occ
 Carl Howard Pforzheimer Jr., a leading New York investment banker, book collector and benefactor of medicine, education and the arts, died on Monday at his home in Stuart, Fla. He was 89 and a former resident of Purchase, N.Y., and Manhattan. At his death, he was the senior partner 
 T. Vincent Learson, a former chairman of I.B.M. who led the company's gamble on a new generation of computers in the early 1960's, a project whose success insured I.B.M.'s prosperity for two decades, died on Monday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 84 and lived in Naples, 
 Artur Axmann, a former leader of the Hitler Youth  who sent thousands of young Germans to fight the Red Army and who later claimed to have been the last person to see Hitler alive, died in Berlin on Oct. 24. He was 83. His death was announced only on Monday after his burial at a sec
 Lou Singer, who guided thousands and thousands of visitors through the other-borough charms of Brooklyn and sang its praises in accents compatible with that environment, died on Tuesday in Long Island College Hospital in Brooklyn. He was 71 and lived in Brooklyn. The cause was compl
 Mario Savio, an incendiary and highly vocal student protest leader at the University of California at Berkeley in the 1960's, died yesterday in Columbia-Palm Drive Hospital in Sebastopol, Calif. He was 53 and lived in Sonoma County, Calif. He was admitted to the hospital on Saturday
 Hans W. Kosterlitz, the neuropharmacologist who won an international race to find the first opiate-like substances in the brain, died on Oct. 26 at a nursing home in Aberdeen, Scotland, where he lived. He was 93. The discovery of those small proteins -- called enkephalins, after the
 Hugh Bullock, a financial pioneer who sought to bring dignity and respectability to the sometimes controversial world of mutual funds, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 98. As president of Calvin Bullock Ltd., a firm founded by and named after his father, Mr. Bullock 
 Dr. Isaac M. Taylor, a physician, scholar and former dean of the University of North Carolina School of Medicine at Chapel Hill, died on Sunday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 75 and lived in Boston and on Martha's Vineyard. The cause of death was pneumonia, said
 Mario Savio, an incendiary student leader of the Free Speech Movement at the University of California at Berkeley in the 1960's, a movement credited with giving birth to the campus ''sit-in'' and with being a model for the protests against the Vietnam War, died on Wednesday in Palm Drive Ho
 Eddie Harris, a tenor saxophonist  whose compositions brought him early popular success, died on Tuesday at the University of Southern California Hospital in Los Angeles. He was 62 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was congestive heart failure, said Lolita Marie Harris, his daught
 Frank Kurtz, who ran away from home at 12, set aviation speed records as a teen-ager, became an Olympic high diver in the 1930's and  then won fame as a pilot in World War II, died on Oct. 31 at his home in Toluca Lake, Calif. He was 85. His wife, Margo, said the cause was the effec
 Dr. Bertram Warren Carnow, a thoracic specialist in environmental and occupational health who helped write pollution-control standards and was a consultant to scores of governmental, institutional and industrial clients, died on Monday at Evanston (Ill.) Hospital. He was 74 and lived in Bar
 Clarke Brinckerhoff, a Connecticut lawyer who, exasperated by the lack of adequate public services for his daughter, founded the state's first parent advocacy group for the retarded, died on Nov. 2 at the University of Connecticut Medical Center. He was 76 and lived in West Hartford.       
 Dr. Earl O. Butcher, a former chairman of the department of anatomy at New York University's College of Dentistry, died on Nov. 2 at his home in the Meadow Lakes retirement community in Hightstown, N.J. He was 93. A noted researcher, Dr. Butcher taught at N.Y.U. from 1943 until his 
 McHenry Tichenor, who built a radio empire that spread Tejano music from its Texas cradle to the rest of the country, died on Oct. 24 at his home in La Feria, near Harlingen, by the Mexican border. He was 98. At his death he was chairman of the Dallas-based Tichenor Media System, wh
 Richard J. Duffin, a mathematician who made important contributions in several areas of his field, died on Oct. 29 at his home in Pittsburgh. He was 87. Dr. Duffin was the University Professor of Mathematical Sciences emeritus at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, where he wa
 Vuko Tashkovich, a Westchester architect and builder whose residential designs embraced the sights and styles of his native region of Macedonia, died on Nov. 2 at his home in Pound Ridge, N.Y. He was 58. The cause was gastric cancer, his family said. His dramatic modern hous
 W. Richard Goodwin, a former president and chief executive of the Johns Manville Corporation, died on Oct. 24 in Denver, where he had lived for many years. He was 72. He died of a stroke, said his son, Douglas Goodwin. Known for his flamboyant style, Mr. Goodwin brought an a
 Andre Singer, a composer, pianist and professor emeritus of music at Sarah Lawrence College, died on Nov. 1 at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 89 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Singer wrote more than 100 orchestral, operatic, chamber and keyboard works. His compositions included 
 Charles E. Woodruff, a former vice chairman of Manufacturers Hanover Trust, died on Nov. 2 in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 80 years old and lived in Key Largo, Fla., and Linville, N.C. He died of leukemia, said a spokesman for the Chase Manhattan Bank, the successor to Manufacturers Hano
 David Lachenbruch, a writer and editor who was a respected voice in the world of consumer electronics for four decades, died on Nov. 3 at his home in Manhattan. He was 75. The cause was complications from asthma, according to a spokesman at Warren Publishing, where Mr. Lachenbruch w
 David S. Lifson, a businessman, teacher, author and playwright, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 87. He ran a paint manufacturing business while earning a master's degree and a doctorate in education from New York University. He left business in the 1960's and taught
 Eric Reissner, a mathematician whose work in applied mechanics helped broaden the theoretical understanding of how solid objects react under stress and led to advances in both civil and aerospace engineering, died on Nov. 1 at the Pacific Regent Health Care Center in San Diego. He was 83 an
 J. Kevin McNiff, who left the priesthood to pursue a personal path of service to the downtrodden and followed it all the way into politics and a vocation in the New York State prison system, died on Nov. 2 at his home in Delmar, near Albany. He was 64. The cause was throat cancer, h
 Joseph M. Baird, a retired New York businessman and White House adviser on trade issues during the Kennedy Administration, died on Nov. 1 at Holy Cross Hospital in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 82. A former resident of Merrick, L.I., he retired to Fort Lauderdale in 1973. Mr. Baird w
 Lord Sherfield, a British career diplomat who, as Sir Roger Makins, was Ambassador to the United States from 1953 to 1956, died on Saturday in Basingstoke, England. He was 92 and lived in a farmhouse near Basingstoke in Hampshire. Roger Makins was knighted in 1949 and became the fir
 Louis M. Simon, a longtime theatrical executive, died on Oct. 28 at Catholic Medical Center in Manchester, N.H. He was 90 and lived in Manchester. Mr. Simon began his theatrical career in the 1920's during a trip to Europe, where he met and went to work for the German producer Max R
 Judge Charles S. House, a Republican who was minority leader in the Connecticut State Senate and Chief Justice of Connecticut's highest court, died on Friday at his home in Manchester, Conn. A native and lifelong resident of Manchester, he was 88. He suffered a long illness, his fam
 Rear Adm. John G. Crommelin, a career Navy man who was air officer aboard the carrier Enterprise during six engagements in the Pacific in World War II and later became an outspoken critic of policies seeking to unify the armed forces, died on Nov. 2 at his home in Montgomery, Ala. He was 94
 Morris S. Novik, who directed WNYC, the municipal radio station, during the administration of Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia, died on Sunday at St. Vincent's Hospital. Mr. Novik, who lived in Chelsea, would have turned 93 on Friday. His sister, Mary Pepperman of Manhattan, said he die
 Richard Nelson, a Tony Award-winning lighting designer for theater and dance, died on Wednesday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 57 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a brain tumor, said his wife, Allison Sommers. Mr. Nelson created the lighting for more than 70 Broadway p
 David Alvra Wood, who headed the Cancer Research Institute at the University of California at San Francisco from 1951 to 1972, died on Nov. 6 at the California Pacific Medical Center in San Francisco. He was 91 and lived in San Francisco. Dr. Wood spent his life in the forefront of 
 George Klebnikov, a pioneer of simultaneous language interpretation at the Nuremberg trials who helped introduce the art to the United Nations and later became chief of interpretation services there, died yesterday in Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 73 and lived in Manhattan. His wife,
 Hugo Buchthal, who fled Nazi Germany and became a renowned New York University art historian and an authority on the interplay of cultures in another turbulent age, died on Sunday at a retirement home in London. He was 87. Professor Buchthal (pronounced BOOK-thall) was an expert on 
 Lum Harris, a former major league pitcher who managed the Atlanta Braves to their first division title in 1969, died Monday in Pell City, Ala. He was 81 and had been ill with diabetes for a long period. As a pitcher from 1941 to 1947, he compiled a rather undistinguished record of 3
 The Rev. John R. Cortelyou, who wrapped up a 60-year academic association with DePaul University as its eighth president, serving in a period of growth and turbulence, died on Saturday at St. Joseph Hospital in Chicago. He was 82 and a resident of the Chicago campus. He had been in 
 Lloyd A. Free, who upstaged his career as a pioneering specialist in international public opinion with a single American study that revealed a central paradox of national political sentiment, died on Monday at a nursing home in Bethesda, Md. He was 88 and is remembered chiefly as the man wh
 Michael W. Moynihan, an advocate of free trade who served in the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations, died on Tuesday at his home in Kitty Hawk, N.C. He was 68. Mr. Moynihan, a brother of Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, suffered from prostate cancer, although the cause of death has
 Joseph Cardinal Bernardin, the Roman Catholic Archbishop of Chicago who as a moderate church leader was at the center of almost every major development in American Catholicism since the late 1960's, died early yesterday at his residence. He was 68. The cause was cancer, which the Ca
 Alger Hiss, the erudite diplomat and Harvard-trained government lawyer who was convicted of perjury in an espionage case that became one of the great riddles of the Cold War, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York City. He was 92 and lived in Manhattan. In a case that cat
 Charles William Hagen Jr., a professor emeritus of biology at Indiana University who researched the basic chemistry of plant development, died on Nov. 5 at Meadowbrook Retirement Community in Bloomington, Ind. He was 78. The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, the family said. A n
 Edwin Howard Friedman, a family therapist and consultant on leadership who wrote and conducted workshops on those subjects, died on Oct. 31 at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 64. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Dr. Friedman, an ordained Reform rabbi, taught a
 Frank Morrell, Armour Presidential Professor of Neurological Sciences at Rush Medical College in Chicago and founder of the Rush Epilepsy Center, died on Oct. 22 at his home in Chicago. He was 70. He suffered a brief illness, his family said. At his death Dr. Morrell was dir
 Irwin A. Brodsky, who began his career as a messenger at the Wall Street firm of J. W. Seligman & Company and rose to become its general manager, died of cancer on Nov. 7 at Franklin General Hospital in Valley Stream, L.I. He was 86 and lived in West Hempstead, L.I. During h
 John Francis Cummings, the James Law Professor of Veterinary Medicine at the College of Veterinary Medicine of Cornell University, died on Nov. 3 in Tenafly, N.J. He was 60 and lived in Ithaca, N.Y. He suffered a heart attack while visiting friends, the university said. Dr. 
 John R. Border, a trauma specialist at the State University of New York at Buffalo whose groundbreaking work helped prevent fatal organ failure after surgery for severe injury, died on Monday at his home in suburban South Wales, N.Y.. He was 70. The cause was a heart attack, accordi
 Bob John Magness, 72, a onetime cottonseed salesman who mortgaged a cattle ranch to start a business that grew into Tele-Communications Inc., one of the nation's biggest cable companies, died Friday in the University of Virginia Hospital in Charlottesville. He was the chairman of the corpor
 Abraham Samuel Blumberg, a prominent criminologist and sociologist whose provocative opinions of law enforcement and the legal establishment drew the wrath of J. Edgar Hoover, died on Nov. 11 at the Pacific Regent Health Center in San Diego. A resident of San Diego for the last 10 years, he
 Claude Ake, a prominent Nigerian political scientist who was a visiting professor at Yale, died on Nov. 7 when the Boeing 727 on which he was a passenger crashed into a lagoon in a mangrove jungle 25 miles northeast of Lagos, Nigeria. He was 57, and his permanent home was in Port Harcourt, 
 Cordell Hull Reagon, whose powerful tenor voice spread the message of the civil rights movement throughout the United States and Canada in the 1960's as a member of the Freedom Singers of the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee, was found dead on Nov. 12 in his apartment in Berkeley,
 Andreas Freund, for many years an editor and correspondent of The New York Times, died here on Sunday, family friends said. He was 71. He had been under treatment for lung cancer for many years, friends said. Mr. Freund was born in Breslau, Germany (now Wroclaw, Poland), and
 Benjamin Arthur Quarles, a scholar who wrote about the role of African-Americans in the founding of the United States and in its early history, died on Saturday at Prince George's Hospital in Cheverly, Md. He was 92 and lived at the Collington Episcopal Life Care Community in Mitche
 Bill Doggett, a pianist and organist who was best known for his 1956 blues hit ''Honky Tonk,'' died on Nov. 13 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 80. Mr. Doggett, like many jazz musicians from the 1930's and 40's, was reborn as a rhythm-and-blues musician in the 1950's. Tho
 Erwin Savelson, the founding editor of The Metropolitan Star, the magazine of District 1 of B'nai B'rith, and a longtime volunteer in  Jewish community affairs, died on Monday at the Sound Shore Medical Center in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 89 and lived in Mount Vernon, N.Y. Mr. Savel
 Leonard F. Rothkrug, a combative Brooklyn-bred lawyer who proclaimed his specialty and rank -- Zoning 1 -- on the license plates of his limousine, died Friday at his home in Delray Beach, Fla. He was 68. The cause was emphysema, said his son, Simon H. Rothkrug. Mr. Rothkrug 
 Robert B. Gingrich, a retired Army officer, died yesterday at a hospital near his home in Harrisburg, Pa., hours before his son, Representative Newt Gingrich of Georgia, was unanimously renominated by the Republican majority for a second term as Speaker of the House of Representatives. He w
 Sol Levine, a researcher and writer on medical sociology, died on Sunday at the New England Medical Center in Boston. He was 74 and lived in nearby Brookline. The cause was sudden cardiac arrest, according to the Harvard School of Public Health, where Dr. Levine was a professor of h
 Chuck Howard, a former producer at ABC Sports and winner of 11 Emmy Awards, died yesterday at his home in Pound Ridge, N.Y. He was 63. The cause was a brain tumor, his family said. In 1960, Mr. Howard took a career detour from Chase Manhattan Bank to become a production assi
 Elmo Langley, a former race-car driver who achieved his greatest fame by circling race tracks at speeds more suitable to public roads, died yesterday in Suzuka General Hospital in Suzuka City, Japan, apparently of heart failure. He was 68. Mr. Langley, who was born in Maryland and l
 George C. Ginsberg, a retired commercial photographer often called ''the penny philanthropist''for his modest but loyal contributions to scores of charities, died on Monday at his home in Springfield, N.J. He was 97. The cause was stomach cancer, said his daughter Annette Lawrence. 
 Rudolf B. Schlesinger, a professor emeritus at the Hastings College of the Law whose studies of the world's legal systems are an important resource for those overseeing commercial links with other countries, died on Nov. 10 at his home in San Francisco. He was 87. His wife, Ruth, a 
 Abdus Salam, a Pakistani physicist whose work helped reveal the underlying unity of two of the fundamental forces of nature, died on Thursday at his home in Oxford, England. He was 70 and had been suffering for years from a disabling neurological disorder. Dr. Salam shared the 1979 
 Richard H. Koontz, a longtime executive at Bowne & Company, one of the world's largest financial printers, died at his home in Ridgewood, N.J., on Wednesday. He was 56. He died of thyroid cancer, Al Marold, a spokesman for Bowne said. Mr. Koontz worked for 23 years at Bowne,
 Dr. Harald A. Rehder, a zoologist emeritus at the National Museum of Natural History of the Smithsonian Institution, died on Nov. 10 at George Washington University Hospital in Washington. He was 89 years old and lived in Washington. Dr. Rehder specialized in mollusks of the central
 Mark Trauner, one of the New York metropolitan area's best amateur golfers in the 1980's, died at his home in Boulder, Colo., last Sunday. He was 35. The cause was brain cancer, members of his family said. Mr. Trauner, born in Mount Vernon, N.Y., earned a degree in economics
 Milton C. Mumford, chairman of the Lever Brothers consumer products empire in the 1960's, died Saturday at his home in Pebble Beach, Calif. He was 83. He died several days after a stroke, said John T. Gould Jr., a spokesman for Lever Brothers, the United States subsidiary of Unileve
 Terence Donovan, a London truck driver's son who became an eminent fashion and society photographer whose subjects included Margaret Thatcher and the Princess of Wales, was found dead at his studio in West London on Friday. He was 60 and lived in London. His wife, Diana, said in a s
 Dr. Harold Louis Israel, who specialized in diseases of the chest, particularly those about which little is known for certain, died on Friday at his home in Philadelphia. He was 87. The cause was colon cancer, his family said. From the 1950's until his retirement last month 
 Raymond Skinner Clark, a lawyer and business executive in New York and Baltimore, died on Friday at the Greater Baltimore Medical Center. He was 82 and lived in Baltimore. The cause was cancer, said Mr. Clark's brother-in-law, William P. Carey. Mr. Clark, who had been captai
 David Kidd, an American expatriate who became so imbued with traditional Chinese and Japanese art and culture that by the end of his career he was teaching Japanese traditions to the Japanese, died on Thursday in Honolulu. He was 69 and had homes there and in Kyoto, Japan, where he was the 
 Konrad Fischer, a leading European dealer in contemporary art, died on Sunday in Dusseldorf, Germany. He was 57. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Dorothee. For nearly 30 years, Mr. Fischer's Dusseldorf gallery represented an impressive and remarkably stable roster of Ame
 Mark Lenard, an actor who played leading roles in plays by Chekhov, Ibsen and Shakespeare but was best known as Sarek of Vulcan, the father of Mr. Spock, in the television and film series ''Star Trek,'' died on Friday at New York University Hospital in Manhattan. He was 68 and lived in Manh
 Elrey B. Jeppesen, an aviation pioneer, died on Tuesday at his home in Denver. He was 89. When he was a boy growing up in Hood River, Ore., before the first World War, he used to climb a tree and cling to a branch for hours watching eagles soaring in the sky, a sight he found so com
 Garrett Birkhoff, a retired professor of pure and applied mathematics at Harvard University, died on Friday at his home in Water Mill, L.I., where he had moved from Cambridge, Mass., a year ago. He was 85. He had suffered a long illness, his family said. Professor Birkhoff, 
 Gerry Cosby, who founded the sporting goods and athletic equipment company that bears his name, died on Tuesday in Stockbridge, Mass., where he had lived for the last 50 years. He was 87. Finton Gerard David Cosby's links to athletics went back to the 1920's and 30's, when he was a 
 Paul Rand, a seminal figure in graphic design who made innovative visual identities for some of America's major corporations and book and magazine publishers, died on  Tuesday in Norwalk, Conn. He was 82. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Marion Swannie Rand. Mr. Rand is 
 Philip Birnbaum, the almost anonymous architectural hand behind many of the most imposing apartment towers in New York City, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 89. Unlike his contemporary, Philip Johnson, Mr. Birnbaum enjoyed no public celebrity and little critical accl
 William H. Bowen, a lawyer and venture capitalist, died last Thursday at his Dallas home. He was 80. He was a graduate of Harvard College and the Harvard Law School and first practiced law at the firm Chapman & Cutler in Chicago. He was soon named the firm's youngest partner
 John E. Moseley, a radiologist who contributed to the understanding of sickle cell anemia and other blood disorders, died last Friday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 87 and lived in Washington Heights and Edgartown, Mass. Dr. Moseley retired in 1980 as a
 Julian Samson Greenspun, a Manhattan lawyer and former justice of the New York State Supreme Court in Brooklyn, died on Nov. 21 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 63 and lived in Mill Basin, Brooklyn. The cause was gallbladder cancer, his family said. Mr. Gree
 Philip Lieson Miller, a musicologist and for many years a distinctive presence on the New York cultural scene, died last Saturday at Cabrini Hospital. He was 90 and lived in Greenwich Village. When Mr. Miller retired as chief of the music division of the New York Public Library in 1
 William F. Martin, a former chairman and chief executive of the Phillips Petroleum Company who guided the company through a huge expansion, died on Sunday at St. Francis Hospital in Tulsa, Okla. He was 79 years old and lived in Bartlesville, Okla. Mr. Martin joined Phillips 
 Arch Patton, one of the best-known management consultants of the post-World War II era, died on Nov. 23 at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 88 and lived in Bronxville. Mr. Patton, a retired director of McKinsey & Company, a management consulting firm, developed the first
 Robert J. McCloskey, a career diplomat who served as the State Department's spokesman during the Vietnam War, rose to become an Assistant Secretary of State and later was appointed Ambassador to Cyprus, the Netherlands and Greece, died on Thursday at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 74 y
 Robert Ossorio, a patron of the arts and a founder of the Manhattan Festival Ballet, died on Wednesday  at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan after being hit by a bus. He was 73 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Ossorio, who was born in the Philippines, came to the United States as a chi
 W. Donald McNeill, who won the 1940 United States tennis championship in a stirring upset of Bobby Riggs, died on Thursday at Indian River Memorial Hospital in Vero Beach, Fla. He was 78. His daughter Margaret McNeill-Law said the cause was complications from pneumonia. He had been 
