 Allan Hunter, an investment banker and philanthropist in New York, died on Thursday at his home in Pound Ridge, N.Y. He was 77 years old. Mr. Hunter, who also lived in Manhattan, died of cancer, said his son, Andre Hunter. Mr. Hunter, a native of New York City, began his car
 Emilio Pucci, the Italian fashion designer whose brilliantly colored prints were an icon of the 1960's, died Sunday morning in a nursing home in Florence. He was 78 years old. He died of a heart attack, said Pier Gabriele Bulli, director of the home. Mr. Pucci, who was the M
 Peter Blume, a Russian immigrant whose dreamlike, obsessively detailed images made him one of this country's best-known painters in the 1930's and 40's, died yesterday at the Candlewood Nursing Home in New Milford, Conn. He was 86 years old and lived in Sherman, Conn. He died of a s
 Sir Sidney Nolan, one of Australia's best-known and most influential postwar artists, died on Friday in London. He was 75 years old and lived in Herefordshire, in southwest England. British newspapers reported that Sir Sidney had been suffering from pneumonia and died of a heart att
 Arthur A. Herman, a retired administrative law judge for the National Labor Relations Board, died on Monday at his home in Long Beach, L.I. He was 73 years old and also had a home in Pompano Beach, Fla. He died after suffering a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Herman work
 Cary Scott Lowenstein, a dancer, singer and actor, died on Sunday at Hospice-by-the-Sea in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 30 years old and lived in Los Angeles. He died of AIDS, said his parents, Daniel and Toby Lowenstein. Mr. Lowenstein played Mike, the character who sang "I Can 
 Rabbi Eli A. Bohnen, a former head of the Rabbinical Assembly, died yesterday at the Miriam Hospital in Providence, R.I. He was 83 years old and lived in Providence. Rabbi Bohnen had suffered from Alzheimer's Disease, his son, Michael, said. Rabbi Bohnen, who was the spiritu
 Frederick G. Crane Jr., a former Crane & Company executive and a leader in land preservation, died Nov. 22 at Berkshire Medical Center in Pittsfield, Mass. He was 69 years old and lived in nearby Dalton. He died of injuries from a falling tree during logging on family land, said rel
 Howard Grad, a retired managing partner in the Grad Partnership, a New Jersey architectural firm, died on Sunday at his home in Verona, N.J. He was 79 years old and also kept a home in Monmouth, Me. He died of cancer after a long illness, his family said. A graduate of the U
 Jeffrey Fox, a commercial photographer and instructor, died on Friday at Tisch Hospital at New York University. He was 46 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of cancer, his wife, Phoebe, said yesterday. Mr. Fox specialized in still lifes and for 20 years taught photogr
 John J. Bagatta, whose 44-year career at R. H. Macy & Company took him from stockman to senior vice president, died on Sunday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 71 years old and lived in Huntington Station, L.I. He died after a long illness, his family said. Mr. Bagatta, a na
 Nathaniel E. Kossack, a retired Federal official with a nationwide reputation in law enforcement, died last Wednesday at his home in Wilmington, Del. He was 80 years old. Chandler Funeral Homes in Wilmington, which reported the death on Monday, said he died of heart failure.        
 Paul A. Anderson, a Chicago commodity trader and a benefactor of AIDS-related projects, died Nov. 18 at his home in San Francisco. He was 43 years old and also lived in Chicago. Word of his death was received yesterday from Martin Delaney, a friend in San Francisco who said Mr. Ande
 The Rev. Marvin V. Frey, an evangelical minister who wrote many well-known songs of faith, died on Saturday at Phelps Memorial Hospital Center in North Tarrytown, N.Y. He was 74 years old and lived in Ossining, N.Y. He died of heart failure, his wife, Helen, said. Mr. Frey, 
 Stanley Weintraub, a businessman and philanthropist, died on Saturday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 87 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of cancer, said his wife, Livia. Mr. Weintraub was chairman of the Major Realty Corporation, a real estate syndic
 A. Gardner Fox, a retired physicist and inventor who made discoveries in radar, microwave communications and lasers, died Nov. 24 at the Evergreen nursing in Harmony, Pa. He was 80 years old. His family reported his death yesterday and said the cause was Alzheimer's disease.        
 Dr. Ira M. Goldstein, one of the country's foremost rheumatologists, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 50 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of metastatic lung cancer, the center said. He was the Murray M. Rosenberg Professor and chairman of the Sam
 Frank D. O'Connor, a retired judge of the Appellate Division of the New York State Supreme Court who served as the Queens District Attorney and later as President of the City Council, died yesterday at Booth Memorial Hospital in Flushing, Queens. He was 82 years old. Judge O'Connor 
 Frank E. Stinchfield, a leading orthopedic surgeon in hip replacement, died Tuesday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 82 years old and lived in the Bronx. He died of heart failure, his family said. Dr. Stinchfield was honored as a surgeon, research
 John Caban, executive vice president of Odyssey House, the drug and alcohol treatment organization in New York, died on Tuesday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 43 years old. He died of lung cancer and pneumonia, said his brother, Stanley Drop. A former drug us
 Jorge Donn, a longtime lead dancer for Maurice Bejart's Ballet of the 20th Century, died on Monday in Lausanne, Switzerland. He was 45 years old. He died after a long illness, a statement to the press from the Bejart company said. It did not identify the cause of death. Mr. 
 Max Evans, a former fashion editor of Esquire magazine and a producer of couture and retail industry trade shows, died yesterday at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 61 years old and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Evans died of liver cancer, said his brother, Clyde H. Earl.      
 William R. Kearns, an American who became a well-known actor in France, died last Friday at his home in Chateau d'Oex, Switzerland. He was 69 years old. Patrick M. McGrady Jr., a family friend, reported Mr. Kearns's death yesterday and said the cause was lung cancer. During 
 Eugene J. Kelly, an assistant district attorney in Queens who prosecuted four drug dealers convicted of murdering a New York City rookie police officer, was found dead on Wednesday at his Bronx home. He was 43 years old. Mr. Kelly died of what apparently was a heart attack, said a s
 Joseph P. Lyford, a California journalism teacher who drew national attention with close-up portraits of a sleepy rural community and a densely urban one, died Wednesday at a nursing home in Orinda, Calif. He was 74 years old. He suffered from Alzheimer's disease, his family said.  
 Kenneth J. Oberman, who managed the top-performing mutual fund in the United States last year, died on Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 62 years old and lived in Brooklyn. He died of Hodgkin's disease, his family said. Mr. Oberman was se
 Theodore D. Woolsey, a former director of the National Center of Health Statistics, died Nov. 27 while attending a family reunion in Dorset, Vt. He was 79 years old and lived in Bethesda, Md. Sandy Smith, a spokeswoman for the Center, reported his death yesterday and said the cause 
 Buddy Schwab, a choreographer, dancer and director, died on Tuesday at the Henry Ford Hospital in Detroit. He was 62 years old and lived in Los Angeles. He died of lung cancer, said his sister, Patricia Cywinski of Novi, Mich. Mr. Schwab began his career at age 18 as a dance
 David B. Smith, a retired communications engineer and professor, died on Thursday at Bryn Mawr Hospital in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 81 years old and lived in Gladwyne, Pa. He died after a brief illness, his family said. A native of Newton, N.J., Mr. Smith was an honor graduate 
 Former Assemblyman George M. Michaels, who cast the deciding vote to liberalize New York's abortion law in 1970, thereby ending his political career, died on Thursday at his home in Auburn, N.Y. He was 80 years old. He died after a long illness, according to the Brew Funeral Home in
 Kenneth D. Zumwalt, a former civilian managing editor of the European edition of Stars and Stripes, the newspaper of the United States armed forces, and a former senior editor of The San Diego Union, died Nov. 25 at his home in San Diego. He was 78 years old. A son, Richard, said Mr. Zumwal
 Lawrence G. Derthick Sr., a former United States Commissioner of Education, died yesterday at his home in Signal Mountain, Tenn. He was 85 years old. Mr. Derthick had suffered for several years from Alzheimer's disease, said his son, Alan W. Derthick, of Signal Mountain. Mr.
 Lev Zetlin, an internationally known civil engineer who helped to design innovative buildings and was an expert on structural disasters, died yesterday at St. Mary's Hospital in Milwaukee. He was 74 years old and lived in Manhattan and Palm Beach, Fla. He died of cardiac arrest, his
 Alex Armendaris, an aide to three Presidents on minority business development and an expert on Hispanic affairs, died on Thursday in McLean, Va. He was 62 years old. His family said the cause of death was a brain tumor. Having served as Hispanic political director of Preside
 Col. Alva L. Harvey, a pioneer military aviator who survived 10 days in Alaska's wilderness after crashing on an around-the-world flight attempt in 1924, died on Monday at Mount Vernon Hospital in Arlington, Va. He was 92 years old and lived in Arlington. He died of heart failure, h
 Dr. Bruce Ruddick, a psychoanalyst, psychiatrist and poet, died on Friday in White Plains Hospital. He was 77 years old and lived in Manhattan and Amagansett, L.I. He died of pulmonary fibrosis, his family said. Dr. Ruddick was a clinical professor of psychiatry at Albert Ei
 The Rev. Morris F. Arnold, the retired assistant bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of Massachusetts and an advocate on housing, poverty and other social issues, died Thursday at Mount Auburn Hospital in Cambridge, Mass. He was 77 years old and lived in nearby Belmont. He died of heart
 Col. Alva L. Harvey, a pioneer military aviator who survived 10 days in Alaska's wilderness after crashing on an around-the-world flight attempt in 1924, died Monday at Mount Vernon Hospital in Arlington, Va. He was 92 years old and lived in Arlington. He died of heart failure, his 
 The Rev. James C. Finlay, a Jesuit priest who was president of Fordham University from 1972 until his retirement in 1984, died on Saturday in Murray-Weigel Hall, an infirmary for retired Jesuits on the university's Rose Hill campus in the Bronx. He was 70 years old. He died of a hea
 Emil W. Haury, an archeologist and anthropologist who was influential in the study of the prehistory of the American Southwest, died Saturday at his home in Tucson, Ariz. He was 88 years old. He had suffered from a heart ailment for three months, said his secretary, Carol A. Gifford
 Harold Kreiger, a lawyer in Jersey City for 60 years, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 86. Mr. Kreiger died of a heart attack, said his wife, Stephanie. Mr. Kreiger, a senior member of the Jersey City law firm of Kreiger & Browde, was a Democratic Party stal
 Jack Carlson, an economist, budget specialist and leading economic spokesman for American business interests, died yesterday in Suburban Hospital in Potomac, Md. He was 59 years old and lived in Potomac. His family said he had died of a heart attack. Mr. Carlson served as As
 James Preston Layton, an aeronautics engineer who spent more than four decades working on rocket technologies, died Thursday at O'Connor Hospital in San Jose, Calif. He was 73 years old and lived in Santa Clara, Calif., where he had moved from Princeton, N.J., in May. The cause of d
 Kenneth I. Nissman, a men's clothing executive in New York, died on Saturday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. He was 46 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of complications from AIDS, the Pincus Brothers-Maxwell company said in an announcement. At the time of his 
 Leslie Cheek Jr., an architect and a former director of the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts, died on Sunday at his home in Richmond. He was 84 years old. He died after a series of strokes, said his daughter, Elizabeth Morgan of Belmont, Mass. As director of the state-sponsored 
 Richard Joseph Hughes, who reshaped New Jersey's education system as Governor and then offered a new direction for the national right-to-die debate after becoming the state's Chief Justice, died yesterday. He was 83. Mr. Hughes died about 2 A.M. at his vacation home in Boca Raton, F
 Thompson G. Marsh, a professor of law at the University of Denver for 60 years, died on Saturday at his home in Denver. He was 89 years old. Professor Marsh, who joined the faculty at the University of Denver after graduating from its law school, was its first full-time professor of
 Andrew J. Kappell, an associate professor of English at Hofstra University, died on Sunday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 41 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of complications from AIDS, said Alice Levine, chairwoman of the English department at Hofstra.     
 Bill Filante, a California Assemblyman for 14 years who often parted ways with his Republican colleagues, died of brain cancer at his home in Terra Linda, Calif., today. He was 63. Dr. Filante was a medical doctor. He had been at home recovering from surgery performed in August, but
 Charles Brown, a former soloist with the Martha Graham Dance Company, died on Dec. 1 at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 38 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of AIDS, said a friend, Nancy Perlman. Mr. Brown also danced with the Graham company from 1977 to 
 Harold Yassky, a former hotelier and developer, died Saturday at Humana Biscayne Hospital in North Miami Beach, Fla. He was 62 years old and lived in North Miami Beach. Mr. Yassky died of lung cancer, said a son, Marc Yassky. Mr. Yassky was a former principal of the Shopco G
 The Rev. Joe B. Love, a retired Methodist minister who served on 16 college campuses, was co-author of a theater piece and assembled an art book, died Friday at the Anna Jaques Hospital in Newburyport, Mass. He was 88 years old and lived in Newburyport. He died of congestive heart f
 Perry Lounsbery Ruston, a former president and chairman of Conde Nast Publications Inc., died on Sunday at his winter home in Delray Beach, Fla. He was 86 years old. He died of heart failure, his family said. Mr. Ruston, a native of Manhattan, also had a home in Sharon, Conn
 Robert J. Patrick Jr., an international tax lawyer and a former official of the United States Treasury Department, died Friday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 58 years old and also lived in Garrett Park, Md. He died of melanoma, said a spokesman for Price Waterhouse, the account
 Stanley C. Myers, founder of the Greater Miami Jewish Federation and a prominent civic figure in South Florida for more than 60 years, died Friday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Miami Beach. He was 87 years old and lived in Miami Beach. Mr. Myers died of cancer, said his daughter, Judy 
 Thomas Anson Knowlton, a retired national labor arbitrator, died on Sunday at his home in Millbrook, N.Y. He was 83 years old. Dr. Knowlton taught economics at the University of Maine and was later a field examiner with the National Labor Relations Board under President Franklin D. 
 Tom Pritchard, executive editor of King Features Syndicate, died on Friday at his home in Norwalk, Conn. He was 64 years old. He died after a heart attack, the syndicate said. Mr. Pritchard oversaw day-to-day editorial operations and the development of syndicated columns, po
 William Shawn, the shy, strong-willed editor who ran The New Yorker for a third of this century, died yesterday morning at the apartment on the Upper East Side of Manhattan where he had lived since 1950. He was 85 years old. He died of a heart attack, said his son Wallace Shawn, the
 Bill Shockley, the place-kicker who scored the first points for the New York Titans, now known as the New York Jets, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 55, and his family said he died of cancer. A graduate of West Chester State College in Pennsylvania, Mr. Shockley join
 Carl F. Barger, the corporation lawyer and civic leader who played a pivotal role in keeping the Pirates in Pittsburgh in 1986 and was instrumental in establishing the new Florida Marlins franchise that will begin play in Miami next year, died yesterday. He collapsed at baseball's winter me
 Edwin J. Kenney Jr., a professor of English at Colby College in Waterville, Me., died on Tuesday at the Mid-Maine Medical Center in Waterville. He was 50 years old and lived in China, Me. He died of cancer, said Mary Ellen Matava, a college spokeswoman. Professor Kenney, a n
 Harry A. Fagan, an advocate for social change and parish programs in the Roman Catholic Church in America, died yesterday at his Manhattan home at the age of 52. He died of lung cancer, said an announcement from the National Pastoral Life Center. He was a co-founder and the managing
 Russell P. Saunders, a leading organist and professor of organ at the Eastman School of Music in Rochester, died on Sunday at the Universalist Church in Rochester. He was 71 years old and lived in Rochester. He died of a heart attack, said Lawrence A. Martin, a friend and former stu
 Vincent Gardenia, a character actor known for his work in theater and television and his supporting roles in the films "Bang the Drum Slowly" and "Moonstruck," was found dead yesterday in his hotel room in Philadelphia. He was 71 years old and lived in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn. He died
 William L. Schaaf, a retired professor of mathematics education and textbook author, died yesterday at Delray Community Hospital in Delray Beach, Fla. He was 94 and lived in Delray Beach, where he moved this year from Boca Raton. Dr. Schaaf taught at Brooklyn College from 1932-63 an
 Francis E. Brennan, a retired art director and a cartoonist, died yesterday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 82 and lived in Queens. He died of a stroke, his family said. Mr. Brennan helped plan Sports Illustrated, redesigned Newsweek's logo and proposed "Life's Pic
 Harry Ellerbe, an actor and director who worked on Broadway, in regional theater and in films, died on Dec. 3 at the A. G. Rhodes Nursing Home in Marietta, Ga. He was 91 years old. Mr. Ellerbe appeared on Broadway in Ibsen's "Ghosts" and "Hedda Gabler," with the Russian actress Alla
 John A. Corbett, a longtime radio and television broadcaster in Buffalo, died on Monday at Sarasota Memorial Hospital in Sarasota, Fla., where he lived. He was 69. He died of cancer, his family said. On WBEN-TV, Mr. Corbett led Buffalo's ratings as the anchor of the noon and
 Julian Roth, the retired partner of a New York architectural firm that helped to design the World Trade Center towers and other Manhattan skyscrapers, died on Wednesday at New York University Hospital. He was 91 years old and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Roth and his brother, Richard, we
 Morgan Hovey Harris Jr., who retired two years ago as managing partner of Korn Ferry International, the worldwide executive recruiting agency, died Tuesday on his 60th birthday at St. John's Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was most recently a resident of Los Angeles. He died fro
 Nicholas LeRoy King, the managing director of the Federal Government's New York Foreign Press Center since 1981, died on Wednesday in his Manhattan office. He was 68. He died of what was apparently a heart attack, his family said. He was a resident of Manhattan and a native 
 Stanley J. Friedman, a founder and senior partner of the Manhattan law firm of Shereff Friedman Hoffman & Goodman, died on Wednesday at his home in Riverdale, the Bronx. He was 64. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Friedman was born in Brooklyn. He graduated from Ha
 Tom Cunningham, a social worker who helped deaf people and others with disabilities and a was leader in AIDS organizations, died on Wednesday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 32. He died of complications from AIDS, his family said. Mr. Cunningham,
 Aaron Kellner, who helped to create a reliable blood-supply system for transfusions for much of the New York region, died yesterday at his Upper East Side home. He was 78. He died of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, known as Lou Gehrig's disease, said the New York Blood Center, of whi
 Ed (Moose) Krause, the Notre Dame official who played football under Knute Rockne and coached under Frank Leahy before succeeding him as athletic director in 1949, died Thursday night after delivering a round of his customary cheer at the athletic department's annual Christmas party.       
 Henry Ives Baldwin, a retired research forester and naturalist who schussed the New England mountains long before skiing became fashionable, died on Thursday at the Medical Center at Princeton, N.J. He was 96. He died after a brief illness while on a visit, his family said. 
 Luis Rivera, a Spanish dancer and company director, died on Wednesday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 54 years old. He died of AIDS, said Erica Shank, a friend. Mr. Rivera, whose original name was Robert Luzell, was born in Los Angeles. As a dancer, he was kno
 Prof. Selden Daskam Bacon, former director of the Center of Alcohol Studies at Rutgers University, died Sunday in Martha's Vineyard, Mass., where he had retired. He was 84. He died of a heart attack, the center said. Dr. Bacon was an expert on alcohol abuse, writing many stu
 William Sonenshine, a New York criminal defense lawyer until his retirement in 1985, died yesterday at North Ridge Hospital in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 63 and lived in Pompano Beach, Fla. He died after a long illness, his family said. Mr. Sonenshine was born in Brooklyn.
 Frank C. Wright Jr., a finance executive, died on Friday in Newport News, Va., where he was on business. He was 59 and lived in Manhattan and Mantoloking, N.J. He died of heart failure, his family said. Since 1985 Mr. Wright had been the president and chief executive officer
 Frank X. Zambetti, a retired construction engineer for the Federal Housing Administration and a civic leader in Riverdale, Calif., died on Thursday at his son John's home in Santa Monica. He was 77. He died of cancer, his family said. Mr. Zambetti worked at the F.H.A. for mo
 John R. Connolly, a professional fund-raiser for charitable causes and educational institutions, died on Friday at Tisch Hospital in Manhattan. He was 53 and lived in Manhattan. He died of complications of AIDS, said his companion, Richard Clausen. Mr. Connolly was a consult
 Philipp C. Jung, a set designer for dozens of theater, opera, dance and film productions, died on Thursday at a hospital in San Luis Obispo, Calif., where he lived. He was 43. He died of complications of AIDS, friends said. Among Mr. Jung's best known productions were Broadw
 William R. Peterson, a retired businessman, Connecticut legislator and civic leader, died on Friday in a nursing home in Portland, Conn. He was 98 and had lived on a farm in Portland. He died in his sleep, his family said. Mr. Peterson was elected to a term as a Republican m
 Cornelius Vanderbilt Whitney, a founder of Pan American Airways, a Truman Administration official and for nearly three-quarters of a century a prominent figure in horse racing and the arts, died yesterday at his home in Saratoga Springs, N.Y. He was 93. A family spokesman said Mr. W
 Ellis G. Arnall, who sliced through red tape and Southern tradition as Governor of Georgia from 1943 to 1947, died yesterday in Atlanta. He was 85 years old. He died of pneumonia at Emory University's Wesley Woods Health Care Center, where he had lived for two years since suffering 
 Frank C. Wright Jr., a finance executive, died on Friday in Newport News, Va., where he was on business. He was 59 and lived in Manhattan and Mantoloking, N.J. He died of heart failure, his family said. Since 1985 Mr. Wright had been the president and chief executive officer
 John R. Connolly, a professional fund-raiser for charitable causes and educational institutions, died on Friday at Tisch Hospital in Manhattan. He was 53 and lived in Manhattan. He died of complications of AIDS, said his companion, Richard Clausen. Mr. Connolly was a consult
 Leonard Safir, a veteran radio and television producer who was a public relations executive, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 71 and lived on the Upper East Side. Mr. Safir died of lung cancer, said his younger brother, the columnist Will
 Andy Kirk, one of the last surviving orchestra leaders from the big-band era, died on Friday at his home in Harlem. He was 94 years old. He died of complications from Alzheimer's disease, said a friend, Phil Schaap, the disk jockey and jazz historian. Mr. Kirk was a contempo
 James Cass, a co-author of "Comparative Guide to American Colleges," died Dec. 4 at his home in New Paltz, N.Y. He was 77. His daughter, Julia Cass-Liepmann, said that her father died of heart failure after suffering a series of small strokes in the last year. Mr. Cass was e
 Max Greenberg, who led the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union for 20 years, died on Saturday in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 85. He died of complications from pneumonia, his family said. Mr. Greenberg, a former resident of West Orange, N.J., had been living in Boca Rato
 Michael B. Ross, a retired textile executive, died on Thursday at his home in Tamarac, Fla. A former resident of Hewlett Bay Park, L.I., he was 83. He died of cancer, his family said. Mr. Ross used the works of artists like Picasso and Miro in fabric design. He brought toget
 Richard J. Hughes, former New Jersey Governor and Chief Justice, was remembered more as friend and family man than as public official in a funeral today that was attended by hundreds of people whose lives he touched. The Right Rev. Leonard R. Toomey, who delivered the homily, recall
 Wilbur C. Rice, former president of a valve-manufacturing concern, died Saturday at his home in Sanibel, Fla. He was 76 and also had a home in Bennington, Vt. He had been suffering from leukemia, said his daughter Cynthia Rice. Mr. Rice retired as president of the Flomatic C
 William H. Avery, a lawyer and civic leader, died on Saturday at his home in Winnetka, Ill. He was 87. His family said he died after a long illness. He had been a partner and chairman of Sidley & Austin, one of the country's largest law firms, which he joined in 1930. He ret
 William F. Michelfelder, a journalist and novelist, died on Sunday at Hospice by the Sea in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 82 years old and lived in Gulf Stream, Fla. He died of congestive heart failure and diabetes, said his wife, Phyllis. Mr. Michelfelder wrote of two novels, "A 
 Allen Wallace, a dance producer, public relations agent and building preservationist, died on Saturday at Cedars-Sinai Hospital in Los Angeles, where he lived. He was 39 years old. He died of AIDS, said his companion, Michael Lombardo. Mr. Wallace was the founder and directo
 Dr. David M. Maeir, a former professor of pathology at Yeshiva University in New York and director general of Shaare Zedek Hospital in Jerusalem, died on Monday at Hadassah Hospital in Jerusalem. He was 66 and had been a resident of Jerusalem since 1968. He died from injuries sustai
 Felix Jackson, a movie and television writer and producer, died on Dec. 4 at the Motion Picture and Television Hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 90 years old and lived in Camarillo, Calif. He died of congestive heart failure, said his wife, Ilka. Mr. Jackson wrote th
 Harry A. Gotimer 3d, a New York admiralty lawyer and teacher, died in Massachusetts on Saturday. He was 45 and lived in New Hyde Park, L.I. He died of a heart attack at a motel along the Cape Cod Canal where he was investigating a marine accident, said Frank Nolan, a friend and form
 Paul M. Sachner, the executive editor of Architectural Record, died yesterday at John Dempsey Hospital in Farmington, Conn. He was 42 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of AIDS, his family said. Mr. Sachner joined the Record, a national monthly professional journal, i
 Peter S. West, an advertising executive and conference manager, died Saturday at the White Plains Medical Center at the age of 66. He was a lifelong resident of Scarsdale, N.Y. He died of a stroke, his family said. Mr. West followed in the field of his father, Paul, who was 
 Prof. Gerald H. Storzer, who taught French language and literature and African and Caribbean literature at Brooklyn College, died yesterday at Tisch Hospital of New York University. He was 54 and lived in Brooklyn. He died of a coronary thrombosis, the college said. Professo
 Grant V. A. Roberts, founder and chairman of Sasco Management in Fairfield, Conn., died yesterday at his home in Southport, Conn. He was 48 years old. He died of cancer, his family said. He founded Sasco, a consulting and money management concern, in 1986. Born in Ne
 Harry A. Gotimer 3d, a New York admiralty lawyer and teacher, died in Massachusetts on Saturday. He was 45 and lived in New Hyde Park, L.I. He died of a heart attack at a motel along the Cape Cod Canal where he was investigating a marine accident, said Frank Nolan, a friend and form
 Rabbi Alexander M. Shapiro, a national spokesman for Conservative Judaism who was a leader of the successful effort to ordain women as Conservative rabbis and worked to reconcile differences between the major branches of Judaism, died on Thursday at Suburban General Hospital in Philadelphia
 Richard D. Weigle, an innovator in higher education who was president of St. John's College in Annapolis, Md. for 31 years, died Monday at the Annapolis Convalescent Center. He was 80 and lived in Annapolis. He died of complications of Parkinson's disease, his family said. W
 Gary Essert, the founder and director of the Los Angeles International Film Festival and the founder and chief executive officer of the American Cinematheque, died on Wednesday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 54 years old. He died of AIDS, said Barbara Smith, the managing directo
 Dr. James A. Jones, an associate professor at the Columbia University School of Social Work and a consultant to government and private agencies, died on Wednesday at Hackensack Hospital. He was 60. The school said he died of a heart attack or stroke or both. Dr. Jones, who l
 Lucien Goldschmidt, a dealer in rare and illustrated books, prints and drawings, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 80 years old. He died of a viral infection, his family said. He was born in Brussels on March 3, 1912, educated at the College Royal Francais in B
 Morton Stavis, a civil liberties lawyer and a founder of the Center for Constitutional Rights, died yesterday at South Coast Hospital in Laguna Beach, Calif., where he was visiting. He was 77 and lived in Manhattan. He died of head injuries from a fall, his family said. Mr. 
 Selig Altschul, long a premier financial expert and counselor to the aviation industry and those investing in it, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 78 and until recently also kept a home in Pawling, N.Y. He died of cancer, his family said. Mr. Altschul's compan
 William Almon Wood, a broadcast journalist and professor emeritus at Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism, died on Tuesday in Chapel Hill, N.C. A former resident of New Canaan, Conn., and Savannah, Ga., he was 80. The cause of death was cancer, said his wife, Louisa.   
 Charles A. Blessing, an architect and city planner, died Thursday at Henry Ford Hospital in Detroit. He was 80. He died of respiratory failure, his family said. Mr. Blessing was born in Montrose, Colo., and lived in Detroit. He was one of the first American urban planners to
 Dana Andrews, the sturdy, square-jawed archetypal American hero of acclaimed films of the 1940's, including "The Best Years of Our Lives," "Laura" and "A Walk in the Sun," died on Thursday at Los Alamitos Medical Center in Orange County, Calif. He was 83 years old. He had been hospi
 Frederick G. Marcham, who became one of the nation's longest-serving professors in a 68-year teaching career at Cornell University, died on Wednesday at his home in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 94. The cause of death was not specified, but a Cornell spokeswoman said he had been in failing he
 Howard Cann, the basketball coach at New York University for more than three decades and a member of the Basketball Hall of Fame, died yesterday after a long illness. He was 97. Mr. Cann, who lived in Irvington, N.Y., died at Community Hospital in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y. Cann, a h
 James A. Goode, an author and a top editor of several major national magazines, died Sunday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Burbank, Calif. He was 68 and lived in Los Angeles. He died of a heart attack, said Harry W. Carey, his companion. In the 1970's Mr. Goode was the executiv
 Mark Goodson, who turned his curiosity into a television institution, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 77. He died of pancreatic cancer, said his son, Jonathan Goodson of Los Angeles. In a radio and television career that lasted more than half a century, Mr. G
 Simon M. Jaglom, a New York businessman and financier, died on Wednesday at New York University Medical Center. A Manhattan resident, he turned 96 last Saturday. A native of Ukraine, he moved to what was then the Free State of Danzig, where he became general director of the Ministry
 Dr. Arnold L. Bachman, a New York City radiologist for many years, died on Thursday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 80 and lived in Manhattan. He died of lymphoma, his family said. Dr. Bachman was the director of radiology at Francis Delafield Hospital of Columb
 Bruce D. Kaplan, who helped foster folk and ethnic music as the founder and president of Flying Fish Records, died Tuesday at Illinois Masonic Hospital in Chicago, where he lived. He was 47. He died of bacterial meningitis, his family said. Mr. Kaplan built on an academic ba
 Jay W. Murphy, a noted labor arbitrator, law professor and civil rights advocate, died Wednesday in Rockwood, Tenn., where he was hearing a labor dispute. He was 81 and lived in Tuscaloosa, Ala. The cause of death was apparently a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Murphy wa
 William E. Watson, whose eccentric style as the host of a classical music program on WNCN radio drew a devoted audience in the 1960's, died Oct. 27 at a nursing home in Hawthorne, N.Y. He was 77 and lived in Moonachie, N.J. Relatives said that Mr. Watson, whose death came to the att
 Jay W. Murphy, a noted labor arbitrator, law professor and civil rights advocate, died Wednesday in Rockwood, Tenn., where he was hearing a labor dispute. He was 81 and lived in Tuscaloosa, Ala. The cause of death was apparently a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Murphy wa
 Nicholas Bonavita, a long-time presence at the New York City Council who most recently served as its chief sergeant-at-arms, died on Friday at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 60 years old and lived in Park Slope, Brooklyn. He died after a five-year battle with heart dis
 Steven J. Ross, who built a family funeral parlor business into Time Warner Inc., the world's largest media and entertainment company, died yesterday in Los Angeles. He was 65 years old. His death was caused by complications arising from his prostate cancer, from which he had suffer
 Rabbi Theodore Friedman, a scholar of Conservative Judaism and spiritual leader of Congregation Beth El of the Oranges and Maplewood, N.J., for many years, died on Thursday in the Hadassah Hospital Hospice in Jerusalem. He was 84 years old and lived in Jerusalem since retiring in 1970.     
 Thomas Gallagher, a writer whose painstaking research informed nonfiction on great disasters and military heroism and novels that probed the lost lives of bumbling, self-destructive people, died on Saturday at his apartment in Manhattan. He was 74 years old. He died of a heart attac
 William E. Watson, whose eccentric style as the host of a classical music program on WNCN radio drew a devoted audience in the 1960's, died Oct. 27 at a nursing home in Hawthorne, N.Y. He was 77 and lived in Moonachie, N.J. Relatives said that Mr. Watson, whose death came to the att
 Burnham Finney, an editor and writer specializing in the machine-tool industry, died on Saturday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 92. He died of congestive heart failure, said his son, Paul Burnham Finney. For 27 years, Mr. Finney was editor in chief of American Machini
 David Platt, a film and music critic, died on Thursday at his home in Long Beach, L.I. He was 89 years old. He died of complications from a stroke, said his son, David Jr. Mr. Platt was born in Kiev, in the Ukraine, and came to the United States with his family at age 2. He 
 George Murnane Jr., a former partner at the investment banking firm of Lazard Freres & Company, died on Sunday at Indian River Memorial Hospital in Vero Beach, Fla. He was 75 and lived in Vero Beach. Mr. Murnane, a former resident of Locust Valley, L.I., died of emphysema, said his 
 Glenn Rowen, a member of the New York City Opera chorus for 17 years, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 59 years old. He died of AIDS, said Susan Woelzl, the opera's director of publicity. Mr. Rowen was born in Roswell, N.M., and was a graduate of Indiana Unive
 H. Paul Warwick, a retired advertising executive, died on Sunday at Boca Raton Community Hospital in Florida. He was 98 and lived in Boca Raton. He died after surgery on a fractured hip, his son, John, said. Mr. Warwick founded the Warwick & Legler advertising agency in Manh
 John R. Kimberly, the former chairman and chief executive of the Kimberly-Clark Corporation, died Sunday at his home in Easton, Md. He was 89. Mr. Kimberly died of heart disease, said Tina Barry, a spokeswoman for Kimberly-Clark. A grandson of John A. Kimberly, one of the fo
 Nathan Milstein, the Russian-born violin virtuoso, died yesterday at his home in London. He was 88 years old. He died of a heart attack, said Maurice Clairmont, his brother-in-law. There can be no argument about Nathan Milstein's exalted place in the hierarchy of 20th-centur
 Rosel H. Hyde, a former chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, died Saturday at the Bethesda Retirement and Nursing Center in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 92 and lived in Washington. Mr. Hyde died of complications from a stroke, said a spokeswoman for the Washington law firm 
 Albert King, a blues guitarist and singer who became a major figure in postwar American music, died on Monday in Memphis, where he lived. Mr. King, who was 69, died after a heart attack, the N. J. Ford & Sons Funeral Home in Memphis said. Mr. King was an intense performer, a
 Haskell R. Coplin, Professor Emeritus of Psychology at Amherst College and a scholar of human sexuality, died Sunday at St. Mary's Hospice in Tucson, Ariz. He was 70 years old and lived in Amherst, Mass. He died of cancer, said his wife, Jo Ann Shinaberger Coplin. Dr. Coplin
 Martin S. Thaler, a partner in the New York-based law firm of Weil, Gotshal & Manges, died on Monday at the Washington Hospital Center. He was 60 years old and lived in Clarksville, Md. He died of complications from abdominal surgery, said his wife, Mary O'Brien Thaler. In 1
 Richard Christie, a social psychologist at Columbia University, collapsed and died on Monday in Schermerhorn Hall on the Columbia campus. He was 74 and lived in Manhattan. Professor Christie died apparently of a heart attack, said Fred Kneubel, a Columbia spokesman. Beginnin
 Robert A. Katz, an international lawyer and corporate executive, died on Sunday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 65 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Katz died of complications from cancer, said his son, Michael, of College Park, Md. Mr. Katz was for 
 Samuel Lenher, a retired Du Pont executive and chairman emeritus of the University of Delaware board, died Thursday at Cokesbury Health Care Center in Hockessin, Del. He was 87. Mr. Lenher, who was a patient at the health care center, joined the E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company as
 William E. Hegarty, a lawyer who played a part in winning the landmark court case permitting publication of the Pentagon Papers, died yesterday at Greenwich Hospital in Greenwich, Conn. He was 66. He had pneumonia and died of heart failure, his family said. Mr. Hegarty, who 
 Bernard Frawley, an actor, died last Thursday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 63 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of throat cancer, said his wife, Maureen. Mr. Frawley appeared in a number of Broadway productions, including "Mass Appeal" with Milo O'Shea. His Off 
 Calvin H. P. Pava, an expert on adapting working conditions to make the best use of computers and other technological equipment, died last Thursday at Stanford University Hospital in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 39 and lived in Portola Valley, Calif. He died of a brain tumor, said a spo
 Edward Pessen, an expert on American history, died on Tuesday in Miami. He was 71 years old, and his permanent home was in Brooklyn. He died of a heart attack, his family said. Dr. Pessen was a Jacksonian scholar and also specialized in the study of social mobility. 
 Frederick William Franz, a biblical scholar and president of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society, better known as the Jehovah's Witnesses, died on Tuesday at his residence in the society's headquarters in Brooklyn. He was 99 years old. An eight-member board of directors is selec
 Henry C. Mills, an educator who held the second highest post at St. John's University, died on Sunday at the Baltimore County General Hospital in Ran dallstown, Md. He was 91 and lived in Sykesville, Md. He died of congestive heart failure, said his daughter, Elizabeth Koehn.       
 The Rev. Howard G. Hageman, a former national leader of the Reformed Church in America and a retired seminary president, died on Sunday at St. Peter's Hospital in Albany. He was 71 and lived in New Baltimore, N.Y. He died of esophageal cancer, his family said. At the age of 
 Karl Seymour Nash, the editor of The Ridgefield (N.J.) Press for 50 years and president of Acorn Press newspapers, died Tuesday at his winter home in Cocoa Beach, Fla. He was 84 and also lived in Ridgefield. Mr. Nash had pancreatic cancer two years ago, said Sally Sanders, a spokesw
 Malvin P. Sevin, a leader in the home-heating oil industry, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 74. He died of lymphoma, said Joseph P. Cavanaugh, a senior vice president of the Petroleum Heat and Power Company. Mr. Sevin was chairman and co-chief executive of 
 Thomas K. Cureton Jr., a pioneer researcher in the study of physical fitness, died Dec. 18 at his home in Urbana, Ill. He was 91. Professor Cureton, who taught at the University of Illinois from 1941 to 1969, lectured at physical fitness institutes around the world. He wrote or was 
 David Hare, a sculptor, painter and photographer who was a prominent figure among the first generation of New York School artists, died on Monday in Jackson Hole, Wyo. He was 75 years old and lived in Victor, Idaho. He died after an emergency operation for an aortic aneurysm, said h
 Demitri Boris Shimkin, professor emeritus of anthropology at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, died Tuesday at the Carle Foundation Hospital in Urbana. He was 76. Professor Shimkin died of complications from cancer, Mary Creswell, a university spokeswoman, said.       
 Robert E. Marshak, a former president of the City College of New York and an expert on theoretical physics, died Wednesday while vacationing with his family in Cancun, Mexico. He was 76 and lived in Blacksburg, Va. Professor Marshak and his wife, Ruth, and their family had gathered 
 Vincent Fourcade, a New York-based decorator known for opulent Victorian interiors that epitomized the lavish style of the 1980's, died on Wednesday at his home in Paris. He was 58. He died of AIDS, said his partner, Robert Denning. During his 35-year career, Mr. Fourcade an
 William Pierce Archer Sr., a former antiques dealer, died Dec. 9 at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 82 and lived in Scarsdale, N.Y. Mr. Archer died of a stroke and a heart attack, said his wife of 52 years, Eugenia. Mr. Archer was a former president and chairman
 Former Representative Richard H. Ichord, a fervent anti-Communist who crusaded against the peace movement during the Vietnam War and served as the last chairman of the House Un-American Activities Committee, died yesterday at a hospital in Nevada, Mo. He was 66. He died of complicat
 Isaac L. Auerbach, an early advocate of computer technology, died on Thursday at his home in Lower Merion, Pa. He was 71 years old. He died of leukemia, his family said. Mr. Auerbach played a role in several advances in early computer technology, such as the computerization 
 Thomas W. (Teddy) Gleason, who as president of the International Longshoremen's Association for 24 years held an iron grip on the docks of both the Atlantic and Gulf coasts, only to see that grip pried open by containerized shipping, died on Thursday at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. 
 John G. Kemeny, a distinguished mathematician and computer pioneer who was president of Dartmouth College for more than a decade, died yesterday at the Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center in Lebanon, N.H. He was 66 and lived in the town of Etna, near the Dartmouth campus. Alex Huppe,
 John F. Melby, a diplomat who was dismissed from the State Department during the McCarthy era and attributed his ouster to an affair with Lillian Hellman, died on Dec. 18 in Guelph, Ontario, Canada, where he lived. He was 79. He died of a heart attack, family members said. A
 Lieut. Gen. Garrison Holt Davidson, who led task forces in World War II and the Korean War and later served as commander of the General Staff College at Fort Leavenworth, Kan., the United States Military Academy at West Point and the Seventh Army in Europe, died on Friday in Oakland, Calif.
 Thomas W. (Teddy) Gleason, who as president of the International Longshoremen's Association for 24 years held an iron grip on the docks of both the Atlantic and Gulf coasts, only to see that grip pried open by containerized shipping, died on Thursday at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. 
 Alfred T. Lee, a trademark lawyer, died on Friday at his home in Amawalk, N.Y. He was 65 years old and had another home in the Murray Hill section of Manhattan. He died of cancer of the pancreas, said Sandy Rosen, a partner of Mr. Lee's in the New York office of the Los Angeles-base
 Arnold M. Miller, who began his career as a hair stylist and later founded Matrix Essentials Inc., one of the nation's leading makers of hair-care products, died on Saturday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, where he had been receiving treatment for cancer. Mr. Miller was 60 year
 The Rev. J. Robert Williams, whose ordination in 1989 by the Bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of Newark caused consternation in the Episcopal Church because he was an avowed homosexual, died on Thursday in Boston. He was 37. He died at Beth Israel Hospital in Boston of an AIDS-relate
 William C. Trueheart, a former Ambassador to Nigeria and deputy chief of mission in Saigon just before the American military buildup in Vietnam, died Thursday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 74 and lived in Washington. Mr. Trueheart died of cancer, said his son, Ch
 Carlos Querejeta, vice president and controller of Serino Coyne, an advertising agency specializing in theatrical accounts, died on Friday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 68 and lived in Manhattan. He died of cancer, his family said. He had been with the agency for 
 Dr. Claude E. Forkner Sr., a former professor at Cornell University Medical School and an internist, died on Dec. 20 at his home in DeLand, Fla. He was 92. Dr. Forkner died in his sleep. He had suffered from diabetes, said his wife of 65 years, Marion Sturges DuBois Forkner.        
 Dr. John L. Peters, a Methodist minister and founder of World Neighbors, an international self-help organization, died Saturday at the Cherry Creek Nursing Home in Aurora, Colo., a suburb of Denver. He was 85 and lived in Aurora. He died of complications from pneumonia and leukemia,
 Lawrence E. Bruce Jr., a lawyer and president of the United States Committee for Unicef, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 47. He died of complications from a liver ailment, a family member said. As head of the largest national committee for the United Nation's
 Dr. Max Gruenewald, international president of the Leo Baeck Institutes and Rabbi Emeritus of Congregation B'nai Israel of Millburn, N.J., died yesterday at his home in Millburn. He was 93. He died of cancer, said Jenks Schachter, a friend of the family. For a quarter of a c
 Rufus Bullock, chairman of Edgewood Management Company, an investment advisory firm in New York City, died on Friday at Greenwich Hospital in Greenwich, Conn. He was 56 and lived in Greenwich. He died of lung cancer, said William C. Breed 3d, a principal of Edgewood. Mr. Bul
 Sal Maglie, who pitched for all three New York teams during the tumultuous baseball wars of the 1950's and who intimidated batters with hard looks and high, hard fastballs, died yesterday in a nursing home in Niagara Falls, N.Y. He was 75. Timothy Gleason, a spokesman for the Niagar
 Stephen J. Albert, a composer of lushly scored, dramatic symphonic music who won the 1985 Pulitzer Prize for his "Symphony Riverrun" was killed on Sunday afternoon in an automobile accident in Truro, Mass. He was 51 years old and had homes in Newton Center, Mass., and in Truro, on Cape Cod.
 George R. Hughes, an Egyptologist and a former director of the Oriental Institute at the University of Chicago, died on Dec. 21 at the university's Medical Center. He was 85 and lived in Chicago. He died of complications of a bladder infection, said William Harms, a spokesman for th
 Dr. Paul Kirkpatrick, a developer of the X-ray reflection microscope and a retired professor at Stanford University, died Saturday at his home in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 98. He died of natural causes, said Joel Shurkin, a spokesman for Stanford. In 1948 Dr. Kirkpatrick and 
 R. Stewart Kilbourne, a business and civic leader who served in the cabinet of Nelson A. Rockefeller when he was Governor of New York, died on Sunday in Brunswick, Ga. He was 87 and lived in Sea Island, Ga. Mr. Kilbourne died at the Southeast Georgia Regional Medical Center, said hi
 S. Garton Churchill, a bridge expert and a New York City lawyer, died on Dec. 22 at the Fairview Health Care Center in Fairview, N.C. He was 92. His family said he died of pneumonia. Mr. Churchill began playing competitive bridge in 1928, soon after he graduated from Harvard
 Ted Shearer, an illustrator, cartoonist and painter, died on Saturday at Northern Westchester Hospital Center in Mount Kisco, N.Y. He was 73 and lived in Pound Ridge, N.Y. He died of cardiac arrest, said his son, John, of Golden's Bridge, N.Y. Mr. Shearer created the comic s
 Alex Quaison-Sackey, the first diplomat from a black African nation to serve as President of the General Assembly of the United Nations, died Monday at Korie Bu Hospital in Accra, Ghana. He was 68 and lived in Accra. Mr. Quaison-Sackey died of a pulmonary embolism, said a son, Dr. E
 Anthony C. Mottola, an educator and a retired dean of the Fordham University Graduate School of Education, died on Saturday at Lehigh Valley Hospital in Allentown, Pa. He was 77 and lived in Caldwell, N.J. He died of heart failure while visiting his family, said his son, Paul.      
 Edward L. Johnson, a former Foreign Service officer and a lawyer who was an authority on ship financing, died on Monday at his home in Larchmont, N.Y. He was 69. Mr. Johnson died of heart failure, said a son, Christopher L. Johnson of Columbus, Ohio. Mr. Johnson was born in 
 Leonard Jacobson, an architect who worked with I. M. Pei on some of the most important museum projects of this century, died on Saturday at his home in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y. He was 71 years old. His office, Pei Cobb Freed & Partners, said he died of a heart attack. Mr. Jaco
 M. Roy Fisher, an art historian and a dealer in Old Masters, died on Dec. 22 at the New York University Medical Center. He was 61 and lived in Manhattan. He died of complications of leukemia, said his brother Jules. Mr. Fisher was director of research at Wildenstein & Compan
 The Rev. Robert Banome, a Roman Catholic priest who fought drug addiction and urban decay in blighted neighborhoods of the South Bronx, died on Monday. He was 62. He died in the rectory at St. Anthony's Church, where he was pastor. The cause of death was cancer, said Sandra Ruiz But
