Alex L. Hart, a transportation consultant who in the 1960's was executive director of the New York-New Jersey Transportation Agency, died March 11 in Aurora, Colo. He was 73 years old and was a former resident of Centerport, L.I. Alex L. Hart, a transportation consultant who i
Clint W. Murchison Jr., the scion of a Texas wildcat oil family who created the Dallas Cowboys football team, died Monday night. He was 63 years old.  Mr. Murchison, who had been debilitated by a neurological disorder, was admitted to Gaston Episcopal Hospital here about two weeks ago
Harry G. Hackett, the first black man appointed a Federal bankruptcy judge, died here Saturday. He was 64 years old. Harry G. Hackett, the first black man appointed a Federal bankruptcy judge, died here Saturday. He was 64 years old. Mr. Hackett was appointed to the Fe
Kevin D. Murphy, a partner of KMS Corporate Brokers, a Wall Street bond brokerage concern, died of a heart attack Friday at Bellevue Hospital Center. He was 48 years old and lived in New York City and Newtown, Conn. Kevin D. Murphy, a partner of KMS Corporate Brokers, a Wall S
Dr. Richard J. Smith, a prominent hand surgeon, died Monday after a long illness. He was 56 years old. Dr. Richard J. Smith, a prominent hand surgeon, died Monday after a long illness. He was 56 years old. Dr. Smith, chief of hand surgery at Massachusetts General Hospi
Buddy Rich, a hot-tempered musician who drummed his way through vaudeville shows and big bands, died yesterday at UCLA Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 69 years old. Buddy Rich, a hot-tempered musician who drummed his way through vaudeville shows and big bands, died yeste
Clifford Jackson, a baritone and coach, died Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 71 years old. Clifford Jackson, a baritone and coach, died Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 71 years old. Mr. Jackson was a member of the faculty of the American Academy of Dram
Dr. David Adler, a physicist who dealt with the nature and properties of solid matter, died Tuesday, apparently of a heart attack, at his home in Lexington, Mass. He was 51 years old. Dr. David Adler, a physicist who dealt with the nature and properties of solid matter, died T
Henri Cochet, one of the famed Four Musketeers of French tennis, died Wednesday night after a long illness. He was 85 years old. Henri Cochet, one of the famed Four Musketeers of French tennis, died Wednesday night after a long illness. He was 85 years old. Cochet, son
Irving N. Epstein, an apparel industry executive in Manhattan for more than 50 years, died of cancer Wednesday at New York Hospital. He was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan and Sarasota, Fla. Irving N. Epstein, an apparel industry executive in Manhattan for more than 50 yea
John W. Rockefeller Jr., a consulting engineer who perfected and manufactured the mainspring of the Norden bombsight used in Allied fighter planes in World War II, died Tuesday at the Green Grove Health Care Center in Neptune, N.J. He was 88 years old and lived in Asbury Park, N.J.   
Philip Colleck, an antiques dealer in Manhattan and London, died Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 73 years old. Philip Colleck, an antiques dealer in Manhattan and London, died Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 73 years old. A specialist in 18th century En
Ray Miller, a former featherweight boxer and later a referee with the New York State Boxing Commission, died Tuesday. He had been suffering from lung cancer for some time, his wife said. He was 82 years old. Ray Miller, a former featherweight boxer and later a referee with the
Victor D'Amico, a pioneer in art education and the director of the education department at the Museum of Modern Art for more than 30 years, died Monday at the Southampton Nursing Home in Southampton, L.I. He was 82 years old, and lived until recent months at his home in Amagansett, L.
John H. Manningham, the newly appointed secretary of the I.B.M. Corporation, and his wife, Patricia, were killed in a fire that swept their home in Ridgefield, Conn., early yesterday. He was 53 years old and she was 54. John H. Manningham, the newly appointed secretary of the 
David Watt, a British journalist and political commentator, died on March 27 in an accident at his home in Lewknor, England. Mr. Watt was electrocuted when he picked up a live power line that had blown down across his driveway in a storm. He was 55 years old. David Watt, a Bri
Rabbi Perry E. Nussbaum, a civil rights figure in the 1950's and 1960's, died Monday of cancer in San Diego. He was 79 years old. In 1967 Rabbi Nussbaum, a former resident of Jackson, Miss., became the first white clergyman whose home and house of worship were dynamited by racists. Hi
Tommy Davis, a record-setting kicker with the San Francisco 49ers, died of lung cancer Thursday at his home in San Bruno, Calif., his relatives here reported today. He was 52 years old. Tommy Davis, a record-setting kicker with the San Francisco 49ers, died of lung cancer Thur
William Feay Shellman Jr., emeritus professor of architecture at Princeton University, died Wednesday at Princeton Medical Center. He was 70 years old and had been ill with cancer. William Feay Shellman Jr., emeritus professor of architecture at Princeton University, died Wedn
David W. Payne, who became a lawyer after working for years as a Broadway theater manager and in other positions related to the performing arts, died of lung cancer on March 27 at Howard County General Hospital in Columbia, Md. He was 48 years old and lived in San Francisco. D
Robert M. Lumiansky, a scholar of Medieval English and former president of the American Council of Learned Societies, died of cancer Thursday at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 73 years old and lived in Manhattan. Robert M. Lumiansky, a scholar of Medieval English and
Hans Ericson, former longtime leader of Sweden's teamsters union and one of the country's most controversial labor figures, died Saturday at the age of 59, a doctor reported. Hans Ericson, former longtime leader of Sweden's teamsters union and one of the country's most controv
Morris Amchan, a senior prosecutor at the Nuremberg war crimes trials after World War II who was also an attorney for the Reconstruction Finance Corporation and the Navy Department, died Friday in Washington after suffering a heart attack. He was 76 years old. Morris Amchan, a
Chief Leabua Jonathan, Lesotho's Prime Minister for 20 years before he was ousted in a military coup in January 1986, died today in a hospital in Pretoria, the South African Government reported. He was 72 years old. Chief Leabua Jonathan, Lesotho's Prime Minister for 20 years 
Oscar Zimmerman, an American bass player and teacher, died of lung cancer Thursday in Traverse City, Mich. He was 76 years old and lived in Traverse City. Oscar Zimmerman, an American bass player and teacher, died of lung cancer Thursday in Traverse City, Mich. He was 76 years
Albert H. Newman, a war correspondent, magazine editor and author, died of pneumonia Wednesday at Grand Strand Hospital in Myrtle Beach, S.C. He was 74 years old and lived in Manhattan and Myrtle Beach. Albert H. Newman, a war correspondent, magazine editor and author, died of
James G. Donovan, who was a United States Representative from Manhattan in the 1950's, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan after a long illness. He was 88 years old. James G. Donovan, who was a United States Representative from Manhattan in the 1950's, died yesterday at hi
Jean-Baptiste Doumeng, a businessman who has been called France's wealthiest Communist, died last night at his home in Noe near Toulouse, his company reported today. He was 68 years old. Jean-Baptiste Doumeng, a businessman who has been called France's wealthiest Communist, di
Martin D. Jacobs, a retired United States magistrate, died Sunday at New York Hospital after a brief illness. He was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan. Martin D. Jacobs, a retired United States magistrate, died Sunday at New York Hospital after a brief illness. He was 82 yea
William Bowers, a screenwriter who received Academy Award nominations for his scripts for ''The Gunfighter'' (1950) and ''The Sheepman'' (1958), died of respiratory failure March 27 at the Woodland Hills Motion Picture and Television Hospital in Los Angeles. He was 71 years old.      
Arthur M. Weimer, who as dean of the Indiana University School of Business from 1939 to 1963 directed its growth into one of the leading business schools in the nation, died Monday at his home here after a long illness. He was 77 years old. Arthur M. Weimer, who as dean of the
Chogyam Trungpa Rinpoche, the Buddhist leader who founded the Naropa Institute in Boulder, Colo., died Saturday at a hospital in Halifax, Nova Scotia, of cardiac arrest and respiratory failure, officials said. He was 47 years old. Chogyam Trungpa Rinpoche, the Buddhist leader 
Dr. Daniel C. Leicht, senior assistant vice president of the New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation, died after a long illness Sunday at his country home in Ellenville, N.Y. He was 40 years old and also lived in Manhattan. Dr. Daniel C. Leicht, senior assistant vice pr
Dr. Robert Lincoln Leslie, a physician, printer and graphic artist who inspired generations of graphic artists, died Wednesday at the Caledonian Hospital in Brooklyn after a brief illness. He was 101 years old and lived in Brooklyn. Dr. Robert Lincoln Leslie, a physician, prin
Ezekiel Schloss, an editor and political cartoonist, died after a long illness on March 30 at Roosevelt Hospital. He was 74 years old and lived in Manhattan. Ezekiel Schloss, an editor and political cartoonist, died after a long illness on March 30 at Roosevelt Hospital. He wa
The body of Lawrence Kohlberg, a professor of education at Harvard University who had been missing since Jan. 17, was found Monday in Boston Harbor after it washed up at Logan Airport. The body of Lawrence Kohlberg, a professor of education at Harvard University who had been m
Archbishop Kevin McNamara of Dublin, died of cancer today at his residence here. He was 60 years old. Archbishop Kevin McNamara of Dublin, died of cancer today at his residence here. He was 60 years old. The Archbishop was second in the Irish Catholic hierarchy to Toma
Daniel Z. Henkin, chief spokesman for the Defense Department in the tumultuous days of the Vietnam war, died Tuesday of complications after surgery for a kidney transplant. He was 63 years old. Daniel Z. Henkin, chief spokesman for the Defense Department in the tumultuous days
Michael Redstone, founder of National Amusements Inc., and the Northeast Theater Corporation, operator and owner of 400 movie theaters in the Northeast and the Midwest, died Saturday at his home in Bal Harbour, Fla. He was 85 years old. Michael Redstone, founder of National Am
Henry E. Del Rosso, a Republican district leader on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, died of a heart attack Monday at the New York Infirmary-Beekman Downtown Hospital. He was 71 years old and lived in Manhattan. Henry E. Del Rosso, a Republican district leader on the Lower Ea
Max J. Etra, a lawyer and philanthropist, died Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 83 years old. Max J. Etra, a lawyer and philanthropist, died Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 83 years old. Mr. Etra was associated for many years with prominent Jewish 
Alan J. Buchsbaum - an originator of the High Tech style and a New York architect who helped redefine Manhattan living styles by conceptualizing lofts as polished, high-design spaces -died yesterday at the University Hospital in Manhattan of complications from acquired immune deficien
Clifford L. Fitzgerald, for many years one of Manhattan's most prominent advertising agency executives, died Thursday at his home in Thomasville, Ga. He was 83 years old and also lived in Greenwich, Conn. Clifford L. Fitzgerald, for many years one of Manhattan's most prominent
Enrico Caruso Jr., an actor, singer and the last surviving son of the great tenor, died after suffering a heart attack Thursday at his home in Jacksonville, Fla. He was 82 years old. Enrico Caruso Jr., an actor, singer and the last surviving son of the great tenor, died after 
Herbert A. Gold, the founder and president of Jayme Products, a developer and supplier of premiums and promotional merchandise to major marketing companies, died Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 80 years old. Herbert A. Gold, the founder and president of Jayme Product
Horst Dassler, chairman of the Adidas sporting goods company since 1984, died today in this Bavarian town, a company spokeswoman said. He was 51 years old. Horst Dassler, chairman of the Adidas sporting goods company since 1984, died today in this Bavarian town, a company spok
Paul E. Gay, a realtor in Chelsea and Greenwich Village, died of a stroke Wednesday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 48 years old and lived in Chelsea. Paul E. Gay, a realtor in Chelsea and Greenwich Village, died of a stroke Wednesday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 48 yea
Saul Miller, former information director for the A.F.L.-C.I.O., died of a heart ailment at a hospital here Thursday, the labor federation said. He was 68 years old Mr. Miller retired from the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations in 1981 after serving t
Primo Levi, whose autobiographical writings drew on his experiences as an Auschwitz survivor and his training as a chemist, died today in Turin. He was 67 years old. Primo Levi, whose autobiographical writings drew on his experiences as an Auschwitz survivor and his training a
Philip Wittenberg, a copyright lawyer, author and civil rights leader, died Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 92 years old. Philip Wittenberg, a copyright lawyer, author and civil rights leader, died Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 92 years old. For more 
The Rev. Michael R. Peterson, a priest of the Archdiocese of Washington who was the founder of St. Luke Institute, a psychiatric hospital for priests and brothers and sisters of the Roman Catholic church, died Thursday of complications resulting from the AIDS virus. He was 44 years ol
C. F. Louis DeWild, for many years a leading professional in the field of painting conservation and the restorer of great paintings that are now in the Metropolitan Museum, the National Gallery of Art, the Frick Collection and elsewhere, died at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Cente
D. Edward Ricchiuto, vice chairman and chief executive officer of the Hicks & Greist Advertising Agency in Manhattan, died of cancer Friday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 57 years old and lived in Ridgefield, N.J. D. Edward Ricchiuto, vice chairman and chi
Dr. Nathan Smith, a former superintendent of Morrisania Hospital in the Bronx, died Saturday in Miami. He was 86 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Nathan Smith, a former superintendent of Morrisania Hospital in the Bronx, died Saturday in Miami. He was 86 years old and liv
Franklin D. Schurz Sr., the longtime editor and publisher of The South Bend Tribune and chairman of Schurz Communications Inc., died at his home here today. He was 89 years old. Franklin D. Schurz Sr., the longtime editor and publisher of The South Bend Tribune and chairman of
Col. George Leonidovich Artamonoff, 84 years old, the first president of Sears International Inc. and later director of the Tokyo office of the Marshall Plan, died Saturday of pneumonia in the Potomac Valley Nursing Home in Rockville, Md. Col. George Leonidovich Artamonoff, 84
Horace Adali Sawyer, a former president and chairman of the Lone Star Cement Company, now Lone Star Industries, based in Greenwich, Conn., died last Wednesday in New Orleans, where he had moved after his retirement. Mr. Sawyer was 92 years old and formerly lived in Bronxville, N.Y.   
William Morton, a star quarterback for Dartmouth in the early 1930's and a member of the College Football Hall of Fame, died Saturday. He was 77 years old. William Morton, a star quarterback for Dartmouth in the early 1930's and a member of the College Football Hall of Fame, d
Erskine Caldwell, the prolific novelist whose accounts of deprivation and depravity in the Depression-era Deep South brought him instant fame and instant notoriety, died of lung cancer Saturday in Paradise Valley, Ariz. He was 83 years old and lived in Paradise Valley. Erskine
Zevulon Avshalomov, a composer and performer of traditional Persian and Caucasian music, died on April 4. He was 77 years old and lived in New York City. Zevulon Avshalomov, a composer and performer of traditional Persian and Caucasian music, died on April 4. He was 77 years o
Bruce Savan, a leading New York theatrical agent whose clients included such artists as Sam Waterston, Bernadette Peters, Vanessa Redgrave, Peter Allen and Mary Tyler Moore, died yesterday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. Mr. Savan, who was 59 years old, had been suffering for
Franklin Bandy, who wrote mystery and suspense novels and was a director and a former executive vice president of the Mystery Writers of America, died Saturday at the White Plains Hospital Medical Center in White Plains. He was 72 years old and lived in Rye Brook, N.Y. Frankli
Jacques A. Francois, the civilian member of the three-man National Governing Council, died today. He was 78 years old. Jacques A. Francois, the civilian member of the three-man National Governing Council, died today. He was 78 years old. Anaise Chavenet of the Ministry
Kent Taylor, who portrayed the dapper, crime-stopping detective in the television series ''Boston Blackie'' in the early 1950's, died Saturday at the Motion Picture and Televison Hospital. He was 80. As ''Boston Blackie'' from 1951 to 1953, Mr. Taylor played a dashing former crook who
Wayne Ellsworth Chapman, a tax lawyer and partner in the law firm of Cravath, Swaine & Moore, died of cancer Saturday at his home on Manhattan's Upper East Side. He was 54 years old. Wayne Ellsworth Chapman, a tax lawyer and partner in the law firm of Cravath, Swaine & Moore, 
William H. Stoneman, former chief European correspondent for the Chicago Daily News, died Saturday in Paris. He was 83 years old and lived in a suburb of Paris since his retirement in 1969. William H. Stoneman, former chief European correspondent for the Chicago Daily News, di
Morton Wilfred Bloomfield, a professor of medieval literature at Harvard University, died here today after a short illness. He was 73 years old. Morton Wilfred Bloomfield, a professor of medieval literature at Harvard University, died here today after a short illness. He was 7
Mumtaz Nassar, member of the New Wafd Party and former leader of the opposition bloc in Parliament, died of kidney failure today, his party announced. He was 72 years old. Mumtaz Nassar, member of the New Wafd Party and former leader of the opposition bloc in Parliament, died 
Tom Abbott, a dancer known for his stagings of Jerome Robbins's musicals and ballets, was found dead in his home in Manhattan last Wednesday. He was 53 years old. Tom Abbott, a dancer known for his stagings of Jerome Robbins's musicals and ballets, was found dead in his home i
Dr. Bernard Jankelson, a dentist and a pioneer researcher in cranio-mandibular orthopedics and the study of head pain traceable to jaw malfunction, died here Monday. He was 84 years old. Dr. Bernard Jankelson, a dentist and a pioneer researcher in cranio-mandibular orthopedics
George W. Kennedy, retired president and chairman of the Kelsey-Hayes Company in Romulus, Mich., an early manufacturer of wheels and brake components for automobiles, died Sunday at his home in Del Ray Beach, Fla. He was 96 years old. George W. Kennedy, retired president and c
Martin Dwyer Jr., the chairman of JWP Inc. of Lake Success, L.I., a technical industrial services company, died of cancer yesterday at his home in Jupiter Island, Fla. He was 65 years old and also lived in Mantoloking, N.J. Martin Dwyer Jr., the chairman of JWP Inc. of Lake Su
Erwin Nyiregyhazi, a Hungarian-born American pianist who dropped out of sight for decades and then made a remarkable comeback in the 1970's, died of cancer Monday in Los Angeles. He was 84 years old.  Mr. Nyiregyhazi enjoyed a considerable career as a child prodigy in Europe, and then
William V. Shannon, senior vice president of Gannett National Newspaper Sales, died Friday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 57 years old and lived in Darien, Conn. William V. Shannon, senior vice president of Gannett National Newspaper Sales, died Friday a
Neil Effman, a former executive with Trans World Airlines for 25 years, died of a heart attack Tuesday while on vacation in Mexico. He was 52 years old and lived in Port Washington, L.I. Neil Effman, a former executive with Trans World Airlines for 25 years, died of a heart at
O. K. Armstrong, a teacher and journalist who served two terms in Congress, died Wednesday at his home here. He was 93 years old. O. K. Armstrong, a teacher and journalist who served two terms in Congress, died Wednesday at his home here. He was 93 years old. Mr. Armst
Peter (Press) Maravich, the father and former coach of Pete Maravich, college basketball's leading scorer, died at Highland Park Hospital Wednesday night. He was 71 years old and had been suffering from cancer. Peter (Press) Maravich, the father and former coach of Pete Maravi
Vice Adm. Francis C. Denebrink, a Navy veteran of both World Wars and of the Korean War, in which he was responsible for the logistic support of all United States naval forces, died April 8 at Letterman Army General Hospital in San Francisco. He was 90 years old. Vice Adm. Fra
Alfred Lucien Foulet, professor emeritus of Romance languages and literatures at Princeton University and a faculty member for 40 years, died Wednesday at the Medical Center at Princeton, N.J. He was 86 years old and lived in Princeton. Alfred Lucien Foulet, professor emeritus
Robert H. Bethke, a former chairman and chief executive officer of the Discount Corporation of New York, died of cancer Thursday at the Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 71 years old and lived in Armonk, N.Y. Robert H. Bethke, a former chairman and chief executive o
Cecil King, chairman of what was believed to be the biggest publishing empire in the world in the 1960's, died at his Dublin home on Friday. He was 86 years old. Cecil King, chairman of what was believed to be the biggest publishing empire in the world in the 1960's, died at h
Dick Shawn, the comic actor who played Hitler in the Mel Brooks movie ''The Producers,'' died Friday night after collapsing in front of an audience that at first thought the fall was a joke. He was 63 years old and lived in Los Angeles. Dick Shawn, the comic actor who played H
Richard Gerson Rosenthal, a New York investment banker, was killed in the crash of a small plane in Westchester County Friday at the age of 45. He was a resident of Briarcliff, N.Y. Richard Gerson Rosenthal, a New York investment banker, was killed in the crash of a small plan
Willi Smith, one of the fashion industry's most successful young designers, known for spirited and trendy clothes, died of pneumonia Friday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 39 years old and lived in Manhattan. Willi Smith, one of the fashion industry's most successful young des
Antony Tudor, one of the foremost choreographers of the century and widely considered the master of the psychological ballet, died last night of a heart attack at his home in Manhattan. He was 78 years old.  Mr. Tudor, choreographer emeritus of the American Ballet Theater at his death
Gustav Oswald Lienhard, who guided the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation as it became the country's richest source of grants in the field of health care, died of cancer Friday at his home. He was 81 years old and lived in Edison, N.J. Gustav Oswald Lienhard, who guided the Robert
Antony Tudor, one of the foremost choreographers of the century and widely considered the master of the psychological ballet, died last night of a heart attack at his home in Manhattan. He was variously reported to be 78 or 79 years old. Antony Tudor, one of the foremost chore
Andrei B. Severny, a leader in Soviet astronomy and an authority on the physics of the sun and the stars, died April 4, the Soviet press has announced. He was 73 years old. Dr. Severny had been director of the Crimean Astrophysical Observatory since 1952, and was one of the pioneers o
Carlos Baker, a Princeton University professor who wrote the authorized 1969 biography ''Ernest Hemingway: A Life Story'' and a 1952 book-length study, ''Hemingway: The Writer as Artist,'' died Saturday at his home in Princeton. He was 77 years old and had retired from teaching in 197
Ernest Pagnano, a popular New York dance teacher and former member of the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater and Harkness Ballet, died of congestive heart failure Saturday at his family's home in Harwich, Mass. He was 41 years old.  Born in Provincetown, Mass., Mr. Pagnano trained wit
Glen P. Brock Sr., former chairman of the Illinois Central Gulf Railroad, died Sunday in a nursing home at the age of 90. Glen P. Brock Sr., former chairman of the Illinois Central Gulf Railroad, died Sunday in a nursing home at the age of 90. His railroad career spann
Louis R. Lowery, a retired Marine Corps photographer, died last Wednesday after contracting aplastic anemia. He was 70 years old. Louis R. Lowery, a retired Marine Corps photographer, died last Wednesday after contracting aplastic anemia. He was 70 years old. Mr. Lower
Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor, a daring pioneer commander of airborne troops who became a major force in determining American military and diplomatic strategy from World War II through the Vietnam War and beyond, died Sunday night at Walter Reed Army Hospital in Washington. He was 85 years o
Thomas J. Paolino, who for 21 years served on the Rhode Island Supreme Court, died Saturday at his home here. He was 81 years old.  Mr. Paolino, who retired as an associate justice of the Supreme Court in 1977, was the leader of the Republican Party in Rhode Island before he was named
Alan S. Hays Sr., a prominent lawyer who specialized in international trade law for many years, died Sunday in Paris, where he had lived for several decades. He was 84 years old. Alan S. Hays Sr., a prominent lawyer who specialized in international trade law for many years, di
Arthur Osgood Choate Jr., a retired general partner and executive committee chairman of Clark Dodge & Company, investment bankers, died Sunday at Jupiter Hospital in Jupiter, Fla. He was 75 years old and lived in Hobe Sound, Fla., and Manhattan. Arthur Osgood Choate Jr., a ret
Charles M. Brinckerhoff, a former president, board chairman and chief executive officer of the Anaconda Company, died of pneumonia yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 86 years old and lived in Manhattan. Charles M. Brinckerhoff, a former president, board chairman and chie
Fred Silverman, the president of Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Center, died of a heart attack Thursday while vacationing in Stratton, Vt. He was 52 years old and lived in Hartsdale, N.Y. Fred Silverman, the president of Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Center, died of a heart attack Thursday w
James A. Boyle, the judge who presided at the inquest into the death of an aide to Senator Edward M. Kennedy on Chappaquiddick Island in 1969, died yesterday at his home on Cape Cod after a long illness. He was 81 years old. James A. Boyle, the judge who presided at the inques
Nicholas M. Acquavella, a leading art dealer in Manhattan for a half-century and the founder of the Acquavella Galleries, died Monday at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York City. He was 88 years old. Nicholas M. Acquavella, a leading art dealer in Manhattan for a half-century and 
Hugh Brannum, who charmed millions of children as Mr. Green Jeans on the ''Captain Kangaroo'' television show, died Sunday at Pocono Hospital in East Stroudsburg, Pa. He was 77 years old and lived in Saylorsburg, Pa. Hugh Brannum, who charmed millions of children as Mr. Green 
Alfred T. Gifford, a founder of Country Miss, a successful producer of women's apparel, died of a respiratory ailment Sunday in the San Pablo Hospital while on vacation in San Juan, P.R. He was 69 years old and lived in Boca Raton, Fla. Alfred T. Gifford, a founder of Country 
Prof. David G. Mandelbaum, an anthropologist and expert on cultural development in India and Southeast Asia, died Sunday of cancer. He was 75. Prof. David G. Mandelbaum, an anthropologist and expert on cultural development in India and Southeast Asia, died Sunday of cancer. He
Dr. Robert J. Schnitzer, a specialist in chemotherapy and one of those who developed a principal drug used against tuberculosis, died yesterday at his home in Nutley, N.J. He was 92 years old. Dr. Robert J. Schnitzer, a specialist in chemotherapy and one of those who developed
John J. O'Neill, a former New York City police inspector who supervised the computerization of the Police Department's fingerprint records in the 1960's, died of heart failure April 15 at Bellevue Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 71 years old and lived in Bayside, Queens. 
Justus Baldwin Lawrence, the Army's chief public relations officer in Europe in World War II, died Tuesday at New York Hospital of cardiopulmonary failure, his office announced yesterday. He was 83 years old. Justus Baldwin Lawrence, the Army's chief public relations officer i
Nicholas M. Acquavella, a leading art dealer in Manhattan for a half-century and the founder of the Acquavella Galleries, died Monday at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York City. He was 88 years old. Nicholas M. Acquavella, a leading art dealer in Manhattan for a half-century and 
Quincy Doudna, president of Eastern Illinois University from 1956 to 1971, died Tuesday. He was 80 years old. Quincy Doudna, president of Eastern Illinois University from 1956 to 1971, died Tuesday. He was 80 years old. In the 15 years that Dr. Doudna led the universit
Eddie Davis, an entertainer and nightclub owner who ran one of New York's leading clubs during the 1930's and 40's, died on Monday in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 92 years old. Eddie Davis, an entertainer and nightclub owner who ran one of New York's leading clubs during the 1
Isaac Pacht, a prison reformer and former judge who helped revise the California Penal Code, died Saturday. He was 96 years old. Isaac Pacht, a prison reformer and former judge who helped revise the California Penal Code, died Saturday. He was 96 years old. Mr. Pacht w
John S. Gibson Jr., a former president of the City Council who represented the harbor area of this city for 30 years, died Wednesday. He was 84 years old. John S. Gibson Jr., a former president of the City Council who represented the harbor area of this city for 30 years, died
Mathias Polakowitz, who under the name Paul Mathias was a foreign correspondent for Paris-Match magazine and who covered the 1956 revolt in his native country, Hungary, died of cancer on April 9 in Paris. He was 65 years old. Mathias Polakowitz, who under the name Paul Mathias
Marvin Rosenberg, a textile manufacturer and close friend of the late Senator Hubert H. Humphrey, for whom he served as chief fund-raiser, died yesterday at New York Hospital. He was 80 years old and lived in Manhattan. Marvin Rosenberg, a textile manufacturer and close friend
Robert M. Dowling, a clothing executive who popularized the Sanforizing process in the 1940's and 1950's, died Tuesday at his home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 86 years old. Robert M. Dowling, a clothing executive who popularized the Sanforizing process in the 1940's and 1950'
The body of Claude Jutra, an award-winning film director who disappeared from his Montreal apartment last November, has been found in the St. Lawrence River, the police said Thursday. He was 56 years old. The body of Claude Jutra, an award-winning film director who disappeared
Dr. Ralph H. Gabriel, the Sterling Professor Emeritus of History at Yale University who developed a pioneering course in American thought and civilization, died Tuesday at his home in Hamden, Conn. He was 96 years old. Dr. Ralph H. Gabriel, the Sterling Professor Emeritus of H
The Rev. Pierre Benoit, a Dominican priest, biblical scholar and expert on the Dead Sea Scrolls, died Thursday of cancer at St. Joseph's Hospital in Jerusalem. He was 81 years old. The Rev. Pierre Benoit, a Dominican priest, biblical scholar and expert on the Dead Sea Scrolls,
George H. Gillies, a noted horticulturist, died Thursday at his home in Huntington, L.I. He was 95 years old. George H. Gillies, a noted horticulturist, died Thursday at his home in Huntington, L.I. He was 95 years old. Mr. Gillies won numerous prizes and trophies in 2
Blas Roca, a leading theoretician of the Cuban Revolution who led Cuba's prerevolutionary Communist Party, died Saturday in Havana. He was 78 years old.  [ The Cuban Government declared three days of official mourning, Reuters reported from Havana. More than 100,000 mourners stood wai
Archie M. Gubbrud, who doubled state aid to education in his tenure as Governor of South Dakota from 1961 to 1965, died of lung cancer Sunday at McKennan Hospital here. He was 76 years old. Archie M. Gubbrud, who doubled state aid to education in his tenure as Governor of Sout
Heminway Merriman, a lawyer and former executive of Scovill Inc., a manufacturing concern in Waterbury, Conn., died of a heart attack Friday at King Edward VII Memorial Hospital in Bermuda. He was 74 years old and lived in Watertown, Conn. Heminway Merriman, a lawyer and forme
Herbert Rosengarten, the founder and former president of the Herbert Manufacturing Company, a Manhattan textile concern, died of complications from Parkinson's disease yesterday at New York Hospital. He was 95 years old and lived in Manhattan. Herbert Rosengarten, the founder 
James R. Withrow Jr., a senior partner of the Manhattan law firm of Donovan Leisure Newton & Irvine, died of a heart attack Thursday at a friend's home in Manhattan. He was 76 years old and lived in Manhattan. James R. Withrow Jr., a senior partner of the Manhattan law firm of
John E. Silkin, a former Cabinet minister and veteran Member of Parliament for the Labor Party, died Sunday at his home here. He was 64 years old and no cause of death was given. John E. Silkin, a former Cabinet minister and veteran Member of Parliament for the Labor Party, di
Leonard F. Fuller Sr., a radio pioneer who held 24 patents for his inventions, died Thursday at his home. He was 96 years old. Leonard F. Fuller Sr., a radio pioneer who held 24 patents for his inventions, died Thursday at his home. He was 96 years old. Mr. Fuller was 
Rudolph L. Lagai, professor emeritus of management at the New York University School of Business, died Saturday at the Park Manor Nursing home in Middletown, Conn., after a long illness. He was 79 years old and lived in Middletown. Rudolph L. Lagai, professor emeritus of manag
Xavier Fourcade, internationally known as a dealer in contemporary art and the founder and owner of the Xavier Fourcade Gallery in New York, died of pneumonia yesterday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 60 years old. Xavier Fourcade, internationally known as a de
Harry Seletsky, president of the Election Commissioners' Association of the State of New York and a Sullivan County Election Commissioner, died of a heart attack Sunday at his home in Pembroke Pines, Fla. He was 72 years old and also lived in South Fallsburg, N.Y. Harry Selets
J. Russell McShane, a former president of the New York University Alumni Association, died April 19 at Mountainside Hospital in Montclair, N.J. He was 77 years old and lived in Glen Ridge, N.J. J. Russell McShane, a former president of the New York University Alumni Associatio
Ronnie DeSillers, a 7-year-old Florida boy who received three liver transplants after an outpouring of support from thousands of Americans, including President Reagan, died today while awaiting a fourth transplant. Ronnie DeSillers, a 7-year-old Florida boy who received three 
Dr. George Khoury, who had been chief of the Laboratory of Molecular Biology of the National Cancer Institute since 1980, died of complications related to lymphoma Saturday in Bethesda, Md., where he lived. He was 43 years old. Dr. George Khoury, who had been chief of the Labo
Frederick A. Wyckoff, a retired New York City real-estate executive, died of a heart attack Monday in Lakewood, N.J. He was 79 years old and lived in Lakehurst, N.J. Frederick A. Wyckoff, a retired New York City real-estate executive, died of a heart attack Monday in Lakewood,
Gus Johnson, who brought National Basketball Association fans to their feet with his backboard-shattering dunk shots, died of brain cancer Tuesday night at Akron City Hospital in Ohio. He was 48 years old. Gus Johnson, who brought National Basketball Association fans to their 
The Rev. John Compton Leffler, dean emeritus of St. Mark's Cathedral here, died of cancer today, the 58th anniversary of his ordination as an Episcopal priest. He was 86. Mr. Leffler was dean of St. Mark's for more than 20 years, which he rescued from disrepair in the early 1950's, be
John D. Ames, a retired publisher and investment banker, died Tuesday at the Rush Presbyterian-St. Luke's Medical Center in Chicago. He was 82 years old and lived in Lake Forest, Ill., and Cotton Bay, Eleuthera, the Bahamas. John D. Ames, a retired publisher and investment ban
Pierre Bourdain, an executive in the classical-music recording industry, died of a heart attack Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 57 years old. Pierre Bourdain, an executive in the classical-music recording industry, died of a heart attack Tuesday at his home in Manhatt
Robert Favre Le Bret, founder and longtime president of the Cannes Film Festival, died Tuesday in Switzerland, a week before the festival celebrates its 40th anniversary. He was 82 years old. Robert Favre Le Bret, founder and longtime president of the Cannes Film Festival, die
William H. Kearns, a former top official of the Ted Bates advertising agency, died of cancer Tuesday at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital. He was 78 years old and lived in Riverside, Conn. William H. Kearns, a former top official of the Ted Bates advertising agency, died of cancer Tu
