 John Berry, a stage and movie director, writer and actor who made  more than 50 films and, entangled in the blacklist, exiled himself from Hollywood during the anti-Communist inquests of the 1950's, died on Monday at his home in Paris. He was 82. Long drawn to the dramatic conflicts
 Hugh Haynie, a longtime cartoonist for The Courier-Journal in Louisville, Ky., died on Friday at a hospital in Louisville. He was 72. The cause was lung cancer, said Keith Runyon, the opinion editor of the newspaper. Mr. Haynie, who retired in 1995 after more than 36 years w
 Joey Adams, a classic borscht-belt comedian who spent six decades in the joke-telling business, died yesterday at St. Vincents Hospital in Manhattan. He was 88. Mr. Adams, who in addition to his years of stand-up comedy also wrote joke books and made films, had a syndicated joke col
 M. N. Srinivas, a sociologist who steered Indian scholarship away from the stolid notions of classical texts and into the real world of field work in villages and factories, died on Tuesday in Bangalore. He was 83, and, until his last days, was writing and lecturing about the caste 
 Mike Ockrent, an acclaimed British director whose light touch invigorated musicals and plays in London and New York, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital in Manhattan. He was 53. The cause was leukemia, said Robert Lantz, his agent. A university-trained physic
 Vladimir Yashchenko, who as a teenager set world records in the high jump using an antiquated style, died on Tuesday. He was 40. No other details were available, yet a track coach from Zaporizhya, Ukraine, his hometown, told Reuters that Yashchenko died of cirrhosis of the liver, wh
 Charlie Byrd, a virtuoso jazz guitarist who was among the first to popularize bossa nova in North America, died on Wednesday at his home in Annapolis, Md. He was 74. The cause was cancer, said Audrey Faine, director of publicity at Concord Records. Although most jazz guitari
 Edmond J. Safra, the banker and philanthropist who died in an apparent arson at his Monaco penthouse today, built a vast banking group with Wall Street hustle and old world conservatism. His death came only a few weeks after he reached a turning point in his tumultuous career, when 
 Gene Rayburn, who became a mainstay on television from the 1960's to the 80's as the amiable host of ''The Match Game,'' died on Monday at his home in Beverly, Mass. He was 81. The cause was congestive heart failure, his daughter and only immediate survivor, Lynne Rayburn, said on T
 Tommy Atkins, who made a dramatic escape from Poland during the cold war and later became a college librarian in New York, died on Tuesday in a hospital in Boca Raton, Fla., where he had a winter residence. He was 75 and lived in Manhattan. He died of kidney failure caused by a bloo
 German Arciniegas Angueyra, one of Latin America's most prolific writers and distinguished intellectuals, died in a hospital here last Monday. He would have celebrated his 99th birthday next Monday. In a literary and political career that spanned nine decades, Mr. Arciniegas (pronou
 Herbert J. Freudenberger, a psychologist who coined the term ''burnout'' for the fatigued and frazzled, died on Monday at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 73 and lived in Mount Vernon, N.Y. The cause was longstanding heart complications, said his son, Marc Freud. Dr. Freudenb
 Philip Elman, a lawyer who handled government briefs in the Supreme Court's landmark Brown v. Board of Education case of 1954,  died on Tuesday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 81 and lived in Bethesda, Md. Mr. Elman worked as an assistant in the Solicitor General's
 Pop Gates, a member of the Basketball Hall of Fame who starred for the renowned all-black Renaissance Big Five team in the late 1930's and 40's and helped pioneer the integration of the postwar professional game, died Wednesday at his home in Harlem. He was 82. The cause was heart f
 Richard M. Eakin, a professor of zoology at the University of California at Berkeley who captured the attention of his pre-med students by appearing at his lectures dressed as  Charles Darwin, Louis Pasteur, William Harvey, Gregor Mendel and other greats of science, died Nov. 25 at his home
 Sir John Foster Wilson, who was blinded by a Bunsen burner exploding in his face as a 12-year-old schoolboy and went on to lead campaigns to save millions from blindness, died in his home in Brighton, England on Nov. 24. He was 80. Sir John's principal vehicle was Sight Savers Inter
 Keith Wylie, who brought the intellect of a chess master and the cunning of a pool champion to the game of croquet, died Nov. 1 at his home near Southampton, England. He was 54. A coroner's inquest into the cause of death is continuing. Wylie was regarded as one of croquet's
 Leonard P. Zakim, executive director of the New England region of the Anti-Defamation League who was a leader in tolerance education, ethnic reconciliation and inner-city youth programs, died on Thursday of bone marrow cancer. He was 46. Mr. Zakim had used his political connections 
 Lorimer A. Davidson, a former chief executive of the Government Employees Insurance Company, who helped prove that automobile insurance could be sold without an agent, died on Nov. 27 at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md. He lived in Rockville, Md., and was 97. Mr. Davidson created 
 Dr. Sam Treiman, who was recognized for his seminal research in particle physics and for his Socratic style in passing that knowledge to his students, died Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 74 and lived in Princeton, N.J. The cause was leukemia, said Dr. Curt
 James Ryan, the manager of the Olana State Historic Site near Hudson, N.Y., who oversaw most of the restoration of the Persian-style Victorian mansion that the 19th-century painter Frederic Edwin Church built high above the Hudson, died on Nov. 29 at Albany Medical Center. He was 57 and liv
 Robert A. Swanson, who co-founded Genentech Inc. and played a pivotal role in creating the biotechnology industry, died Monday at his home in Hillsborough, Calif., after a yearlong battle with brain cancer. He was 52. The death was announced by the Massachusetts Institute of Technol
 Donald J. Lloyd-Jones, president of the American Geographical Society and a former airline executive, died of lung cancer on Monday at Stamford Hospital in Stamford, Conn., his daughter Anne Calder said. He was 68 and lived in Stamford. A native New Yorker, Mr. Lloyd-Jones received 
 Robert A. Swanson, who co-founded Genentech Inc. and is considered the father of the biotechnology industry, died Monday at his home in Hillsborough, Calif., after a yearlong battle with brain cancer. He was 52. Mr. Swanson was a 29-year-old venture capitalist in 1976 when he starte
 Marvin Kratter, the New York real estate investor whose holdings once included Ebbets Field (which he eventually replaced with an apartment complex), died on Oct. 24 at a hospital in Encinitas, Calif. He was 84. The cause was pancreatitis, said his son, Leslie M. Kratter, of Hillsbo
 Dr. Nathan Jacobson, a renowned mathematician who developed fundamental theorems and concepts  and wrote many widely used textbooks, died on Sunday at his home in Hamden, Conn., near New Haven. He was 89. Dr. Jacobson, an emeritus professor of mathematics at Yale, was regarded as on
 Don (Sugarcane) Harris, a violinist, singer and songwriter who played blues, jazz and rock, was found dead on Dec. 1 in his Los Angeles apartment by his landlord, Agence France-Presse reported. He was 61. His longtime collaborator, Dewey Terry, said Mr. Harris had suffered from pulm
 Fritz Fischer, the German historian who rankled his peers and Germans in general with the thesis that Imperial Germany was squarely responsible for World War I and its consequences, died on Dec. 1 in Hamburg. He was 91. Dr. Fischer, a Hamburg resident, had been a professor emeritus 
 Victor Perlo, a Marxist economist whose career was damaged by accusations during the Red scare of the late 1940's and early 1950's that he spied for the Soviet Union in Washington during World War II, died Dec. 1 at his home in Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y. He was 87. Mr. Perlo had difficu
 William Eldred Jackson, a New York lawyer with an international clientele that included Nelson A. Rockefeller, Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, the King of Morocco and Baron Hans Heinrich Thyssen-Bornemisza, died on Saturday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 80 and also had
 Datus C. Smith Jr., former director of the Princeton University Press, died on Nov. 17 at the Medical Center in Princeton, N.J. He was 92 and lived in Hightstown, N.J. Mr. Smith, who was president of the Association of American University Presses from 1947 to 1949, was director of t
 Harrison Sanford, a coach revered by his Cornell oarsmen, died last Saturday in Gulfport, Miss. He was 96. Until recently, Sanford had lived in San Marcos, Calif., before moving to Gulfport, where his son, John, lives. Sanford, who was known as Stork and who coached the men'
 Niccolo Tucci, an author best known for his autobiographical fiction evoking a European childhood and a wonderful and monstrous Russian grandmother, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 91. Mr. Tucci, the author of four books in English and three in Italian, was a colorfu
 President Franjo Tudjman, the onetime Communist general who as a reborn nationalist led Croatia in 1991 into secession from Yugoslavia, and from there to independence and war, has died, Croatian state television announced early today. He was 77. ''The president of Croatia, the found
 Rick Danko, a singer and bass player in the Band, revered as one of the most important rock acts of the 1960's and 70's for its work with Bob Dylan and its first albums as a group, died in his sleep on Friday at his home in Marbletown, N.Y. He was 56. The cause was unknown, said Dr.
 Sam Leve, a scenic and lighting designer, died on Monday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 91 and lived in Manhattan. His work set the mood for more than 100 Broadway and Metropolitan Opera productions, as well as events for five presidential administratio
 Sir Rupert Hart-Davis, a highly energetic Englishman of letters whose rich careers in publishing, editing and writing spanned nearly six decades, died on  Wednesday in North Yorkshire, England, his family said. He was 92. In the late 1940's and early 50's, Sir Rupert was the owner o
 Irving Passon Berelson, a retired New York lawyer and philanthropist, died last Sunday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 83. Mr. Berelson retired in 1995 as a senior partner at the Manhattan law firm Parker Chapin Flattau & Klimpl, which he joined in 1943.     
 Lloyd Rodwin, an internationally influential authority on urban studies and planning, died on Tuesday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 80 and lived in Cambridge, Mass. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said. Professor Rodwin retired in 198
 Msgr. Stephen J. Kelleher, who gained wide attention in 1968, when, as presiding judge of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York's marriage tribunal, he urged the church to abolish such courts and allow Catholics greater freedom to remarry, died on Dec. 5 at a church residence in Manhat
 Stanley E. Shirk, a former executive at the accounting firm KPMG who was once nominated to be comptroller of the currency, died on Dec. 7 at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 83. Mr. Shirk, who lived in West Cornwall, Conn., was born on June 12, 1916, in Brooklyn and graduated from St
 Whitey Kurowski, who surmounted a severe arm injury as a youngster and became one of the major leagues' top third basemen of the 1940's and a World Series hero for the St. Louis Cardinals, died last Thursday at a physical rehabilitation center in Shillington, Pa. He was 81. Kurowski
 John N. Popham IV, who drove a green Buick 50,000 miles a year across the American South as the first northern newspaper correspondent to cover the region regularly, died in a Chattanooga hospital on Sunday. He was 89. Mr. Popham cultivated all kinds of Southerners, from governors t
 Joseph Heller, the author of ''Catch-22,'' the darkly comic 1961 novel whose title became a universal metaphor not only for the insanity of war but also for the madness of life itself, died on Sunday night at his home in East Hampton, N.Y. He was 76. The cause was a heart attack, hi
 Charles Earland, an organist and saxophonist who was a popular exponent of the soul-jazz idiom in the 1970's, died on Saturday at the Holiday Inn hotel in Kansas City, Mo., the morning after playing a concert. He was 58 and lived in Matteson, Ill. The cause was heart failure, said h
 Dr. James C. Parkes II, the orthopedic surgeon who mended Willis Reed's strained thigh well enough for the Knicks to win the 1970 National Basketball Association championship, died on Monday in his Manhattan home. He was 64. His two daughters said he had been suffering from a progre
 Nunzio Joseph Palladino, a retired nuclear engineer who steered the Nuclear Regulatory Commission through some rough years after the nuclear power accident at Three Mile Island near Harrisburg, Pa., died on Sunday at Centre Community Hospital in College Park, Pa. He was 83 and lived in Coll
 Patrick Bedford, who performed in many Broadway shows and played opposite Sandy Dennis in the 1967 film ''Up the Down Staircase,'' died on Nov. 20 at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. He was 67. The cause was cancer, said Patricia O'Haire, a friend. Mr. Bedford, who was bor
 Paul Cadmus, an American artist noted for a virtuosic figurative style that he applied to subjects ranging from biting social satire to moralizing allegories to sensual, sometimes sentimental male nudes, died on Sunday at his home in Weston, Conn. He was 94. Mr. Cadmus found his ins
 Stane Dolanc, a former deputy to Marshal Tito, the Yugoslav leader, and later a member of a joint presidency that governed the nation, died on Monday in Ljubljana, Slovenia. He was 74. He died after illness brought on by a stroke several months ago, news reports said. In recent year
 Venable Herndon, a playwright and screenwriter who taught dramatic writing at New York University's Tisch School of the Arts, died on Dec. 8 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 72 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was acute leukemia, said Louise Bernikow, a friend. 
 William Maidman, a plumbing and fittings manufacturer who was also a major real estate owner and manager in New York, died on Saturday at his home in Hollywood, Fla. He was 95. Mr. Maidman was vice president of the Central Foundry Company, which had offices or plants in New York, Ne
 Charles P. (Chuck) Colgan, a Philadelphia educator who had a long association with rowing as an oarsman, coach and referee, died on Nov. 30 at his home in Ardmore, Pa. He was 72. The cause was prostate cancer, a family member said. Rowing for the University of Pennsylvania a
 Douglas Leigh, the dazzling impresario of electrical splendor who festooned Broadway with miles of electrical signs, a gargantuan steaming coffee pot and the celebrated giant Camel sign that puffed smoke rings, died Tuesday in a Manhattan hospital. He was 92 and lived in Manhattan and Palm 
 Jack D. Foner, a professor of American history who established one of the country's first programs in black studies and later became a victim of political blacklisting, died on Friday at the Jewish Home and Hospital in Manhattan. He was 88 and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Foner was caugh
 Early Wright, who became a legend in the blues-drenched Mississippi Delta as one of the South's first black disc jockeys, died in a Memphis hospital on Dec. 10. He was 84. For more than half a century, Mr. Wright broadcast blues and gospel to the people of the Delta on radio station
 Milton A. Rudin, an entertainment lawyer who represented celebrities from Marilyn Monroe to Liza Minnelli and who for more than 30 years was Frank Sinatra's chief counsel, defender, investment partner and friend, died Monday of pneumonia at a rehabilitation center near his home in Beverly H
 Peter G. La Haye Sr., a leader in developing technologies to help people see better, died Sunday when his private plane crashed in Pennsylvania on its way to New Jersey from Seattle. Mr. La Haye was 59 and lived in Medina, Wash. Mr. La Haye was on his way to a board meeting in New Y
 Prof. Donald Fraser Tapley, dean of the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons during 10 years of robust growth, died on Thursday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 72 and lived in Palisades and Hamden, N.Y. The cause was cardiac arrest, the university r
 George H. Eversman, an advertising executive in New York and Detroit who helped the United States Marine Corps with its recruitment efforts, died in a Denver hospital on Wednesday after contracting a bone-marrow disorder. He was 72. Mr. Eversman suffered an infection after receiving
 Henry Helstoski, a former New Jersey congressman whose bright career in government all but ended in 1976 when he was indicted -- but never tried or found guilty -- on charges of accepting a bribe, died on Thursday at a hospice in Wayne, N.J. He was 75. The cause was prostate cancer,
 Robert W. Maxwell, a United Nations official who headed the organization's post office in the late 1960's, died Nov. 30 at a nursing home in Hanover, N.H. He was 78. He died of throat cancer, said his daughter, Ann E. Maxwell of Pawling, N.Y. Mr. Maxwell was chief of the Uni
 C. Vann Woodward, whose gifts of scholarship, storytelling and social conscience combined to produce some of the most readable and respected histories of the South, died on Friday at his home in Hamden, Conn. He was 91 years old. Mr. Woodward regarded himself as an old-fashioned sto
 Everett Carll Ladd Jr., a widely published polling expert who was executive director of the Roper Center for Public Opinion Research at the University of Connecticut, died on Dec. 8 at a hospital in Willimantic, Conn. He was 62. He died of heart failure, said Karen A. Grava, a spoke
 Grover Washington Jr., the jazz saxophonist and composer who moved easily between mainstream jazz and pop fusions, died Friday night in New York City after taping four songs for a television show. He was 56 years old, and had lived in Philadelphia. Mr. Washington was taken to St. Lu
 C. Rodney Smith, a retired major general in the Army Corps of Engineers and later the director of Radio Free Europe, died Nov. 28 at his home in Annandale, Va. He was 97. General Smith spent 31 years in the Army Corps of Engineers, retiring as a deputy chief of engineers, the number
 Jackson Barrett Mahon, an American fighter pilot shot down over France in World War II who was one of several Allied airmen thought to have inspired the 1963 movie ''The Great Escape,'' died on Dec. 4 in a hospice in Las Vegas. He was 78. The cause was heart failure, his daughter Do
 Ken W. Clawson, one of President Richard M. Nixon's staunch defenders as director of White House communications during the Watergate era, died on Friday at a hospital in New Orleans. He was 63. Mr. Clawson suffered a heart attack, his wife, Carol, said. He had been in poor health si
 Edward Dorn, an author known for the mock-epic poem ''Gunslinger'' and other writings about the American West, died on Dec. 10 at his home in Denver. He was 70. He had pancreatic cancer, said Tom Clark, a poet and poetry critic. Mr. Dorn defined himself as ''a poet of the We
 Hank Snow, one of the most popular and prolific country stars of the 1950's, died yesterday at his home in Madison, Tenn. He was 85. In nearly a half century Mr. Snow released some 140 albums with more than 85 songs reaching the country charts. He was a masterly songwriter with a cl
 Jurgen Moser, one of the world's leading mathematicians who helped develop an influential theory for analyzing the orbits of planets, asteroids and other celestial bodies, died of prostate cancer on Friday in a hospital in Schwerzenbach, Switzerland. He was 71. Like many other talen
 Kazuo Sakamaki, who became the first Japanese prisoner of war captured by American forces in World War II when his midget submarine ran aground during the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, died on Nov. 29. He was 81. His death, in Japan, was reported yesterday by a Japanese veterans'
 Lyle Leverich, who wrote ''Tom: The Unknown Tennessee Williams,'' the prize-winning authorized biography of the playwright, died on Friday at Kaiser Hospital in San Rafael, Calif. He was 79 and lived in San Rafael. The cause was a heart seizure after complications from diabetes, sai
 Cardinal Paolo Dezza, a traditional Jesuit scholar who was assigned by Pope John Paul II to rein in the religious order in the early 1980's, died in Rome on Friday. He was 98. The Jesuits, formally the Society of Jesus, an order founded in the 16th century, grew politically divided 
 Joe Higgs, the mentor to a generation of socially conscious reggae singers, died on Saturday at Kaiser Hospital in Los Angeles. He was 59 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was cancer, said his biographer, Roger Steffens. Mr. Higgs sang, wrote songs and taught singing and s
 Leo P. Carlin, Democratic mayor of Newark from 1953 to 1962 who was the city's first mayor in modern times to be chosen by its electorate, died on Friday. He was 91. He died at his home in Avon-by-the-Sea, N.J., where he had lived year-round since the late 1960's. Mr. Carlin
 Robert Bresson, the acclaimed French movie director whose best-known films, among them ''Diary of a Country Priest'' and ''Pickpocket,'' reflected a strongly aesthetic and spiritual approach to cinema, died on Saturday at his home in Droue-sur-Drouette southwest of Paris. He was 98. He made
 Sidney Alexander, the author of 15 books on Renaissance history and art, as well as novels, poetry, plays and criticism, died on Dec. 11 at his home in Richmond, Va. He was 87. Among his major works were the biography ''Marc Chagall'' (1978)  and his three-volume historical novel co
 Alton A. Lindsey, a pioneer ecologist who was believed to be the last living scientist from the Antarctica expeditions of Adm. Richard E. Byrd, died on Sunday at his home in Tulsa, Okla. He was 92. Dr. Lindsey lived his life at the environmental ramparts. He studied penguins and sea
 Antonio Claudio Martinez, an immigration lawyer based in Manhattan who was a longtime presence in Dominican-American and other immigrant communities, died last Thursday at North Shore Hospital in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 73 and lived in Rego Park, Queens. The cause was complications f
 Dr. Harold Eugene Berson, a prominent neuropsychiatrist associated with Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn for more than 40 years, died on Dec. 14 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 75 and had homes in Stuart, Fla., and Manhattan. The cause was complications of lymphoma,
 Dr. Edward Hartman Reisner Jr., a cancer specialist known for his work with vitamin B12, died Dec. 16 at Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. A longtime resident of Tenafly, N.J., he was 84 and lived in a retirement community in Allendale, N.J. The cause was heart failure, his family 
 Henry W. Large, who briefly served as president of the Wabash Railroad and was a longtime executive with the Pennsylvania Railroad, died Dec. 9 at his home in Blue Bell, Pa. He was 94. Mr. Large was president of the Wabash Railroad, which was based in St. Louis, in 1964 and 1965.   
 John Elliott Lyday, the surgeon who inspired the character Trapper John in ''M*A*S*H,'' died of cancer Monday at a hospital in Greensboro, N.C., where he lived. He was 78. The 1968 novel led to Robert Altman's hit 1970 movie, which set the standard for black comedies in its time. It
 Gen. Joao Baptista de Figueiredo, who restored democratic government to Brazil in the face of economic turmoil and sabotage attempts by hard-line officers and political right-wingers, died yesterday at his house in Rio de Janeiro. He was 81. He had been repeatedly hospitalized in re
 Maurice Couve de Murville, France's longest-serving foreign minister and the cool embodiment of Gaullist detachment toward the United States and the Atlantic alliance, died yesterday. He was 92. His family and the neo-Gaullist Rally for the Republic party, announcing the death, did 
 Vladimir Kondrashin, the coach who masterminded the Soviet Union's controversial last-second upset of the United States men's basketball team for the gold medal at the 1972 Munich Olympics, died Thursday of cancer at a hospital in St. Petersburg, Russia. He was 70. The Soviet Union'
 Bill Bowerman, a renowned track coach at the University of Oregon who spawned a revolution in athletic footwear and helped build a worldwide marketing powerhouse as the co-founder of Nike in the mid-1960's, died at his home in Fossil, Ore. He was 88. Bowerman died in his sleep late 
 George M. Jaffin, a retired Manhattan lawyer and art patron who started one of the nation's first large-scale law school loan forgiveness programs for public-interest lawyers, died Thursday at a White Plains hospital. He was 94. Mr. Jaffin, a native New Yorker who lived in Scarsdale
 Dr. Hans Waine, who earned a doctorate in history in Germany and worked as a journalist in Berlin before immigrating to the United States and becoming a prominent rheumatologist, died Dec. 5 at a nursing home in Stamford, Conn. He was 92. In his medical career he held a number of po
 John W. R. Taylor, the longtime editor of ''Jane's All the World's Aircraft,'' the authoritative guide to aviation, died on Dec. 12 in a hospital in Surbiton, a suburb of London, where he lived. He was 77. The cause of death was not disclosed , but Mr. Taylor was hospitalized with a
 Norman E. Rothstein, a producer and general manager for more than 40 years on and Off Broadway and in the national and international theater, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 63. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, Julie Hughes, a New York casting direct
 Roger Frison-Roche, a French mountaineer, explorer and popular writer who carried out the first live radio broadcast from the summit of Mont Blanc, died on Dec. 17 in Chamonix in the French Alps. He was 93. Mr. Frison-Roche's books were widely translated and sold in the millions. Hi
 Tony Bryant, who was a Black Panther, an airplane hijacker, a prison inmate in Communist Cuba for 11 1/2 years and later an anti-Castro militant based in Florida, died on Thursday. He was 60. The cause was leukemia, The Associated Press reported. Where he died was not immediately di
 Bill Bowerman, a renowned track coach at the University of Oregon who spawned a revolution in athletic footwear and America's jogging boom while helping build a worldwide marketing powerhouse as the co-founder of Nike, died Friday at a retirement home in Fossil, Ore. He was 88. From
 Curtis Mayfield, one of the most important soul singers and songwriters of the 1960's and 70's, who brought themes of civil rights to the pop charts, died yesterday at the North Fulton Regional Hospital in Roswell, Ga. He was 57. The cause was not available on Sunday. In 1990 Mr. Ma
 DeWitt Samuel Copp, a writer whose work often focused on the cold war, died on Nov. 29 in Burlington, Vt., where he lived. He was 80 and also had a home in Manchester, Vt. Mr. Copp wrote more than 30 books, fiction and nonfiction, and many articles about the cold war and espionage, 
 Dr. Hans Waine, who received a doctorate in history in Germany and worked as a journalist in Berlin before moving to the United States and becoming a prominent rheumatologist, died Dec. 5 at a nursing home in Stamford, Conn. He was 92. In his medical career, he worked for foundation
 Dr. Lewis Hastings Sarett, an organic chemist who received the National Medal of Science for his work with cortisone and other substances as the senior vice president for science and technology of Merck & Company, died on Nov. 29 at his home in Viola, Idaho. He was 81 and lived in Princeton
 Leo Smit, a composer, pianist and teacher, died on Dec. 12 in Encinitas, Calif. He was 78. The cause was heart failure, said Nils Vigeland, a friend. During a long and varied career that began when he was 15, Mr. Smit worked with Stravinsky, was closely associated with Copla
 Mark Cohen, a major collector of comics and an agent representing some of the world's leading cartoonists in the sale of their original art, died at his home in Santa Rosa on Dec. 19. He was 57. The cause was cancer, his family said. After leaving the real estate business se
 Walt Levinsky, a jazz clarinetist, composer and arranger, died here on Dec. 14, days after being released from a hospital in New York City. He was 70 and lived in River Edge, N.J., and Sarasota. He was suffering from brain cancer and had been in a coma for more than two months, his 
 Anthony Imperiale, a race-baiting civic leader and politician from Newark who became a national symbol of the backlash against urban unrest by wielding a baseball bat to defend his white neighborhood during the 1967 riots, died Sunday at Saint Barnabas Medical Center in Livingston of compli
 Harold L. Fisher, a lawyer who played a prominent role in Democratic politics in New York for several decades and also served as a chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, died Sunday at his home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 89. Mr. Fisher, sometimes called ''Mr. Br
 Joseph Leo McGahn, a New Jersey obstetrician who, as a Democratic state senator, paved the way for Atlantic City's gambling industry in the 1970's, died Friday at Meadowview Nursing Home in Northfield, N.J. A longtime resident of Absecon, N.J., he was 82. Dr. McGahn represented Atla
 Leonard H. Goldenson, the self-contained man who bought the American Broadcasting Company in 1953 and made it an incubator of television innovations while he pushed it from also-ran status to parity with its more senior rivals, died at his home in Sarasota, Fla., yesterday. He was 94.      
 Woodrow Borah, a former professor of Latin American history at the University of California at Berkeley who documented the decimation of Mexico's native population resulting from the Spanish conquest, died on Dec. 10  at Kaiser Hospital in Oakland, Calif. He was 86 and lived in Berkeley.   
 Clayton Moore, who grew up wanting to be a cowboy or a policeman and fulfilled both ambitions by playing the Lone Ranger on television, in the movies and at nostalgia shows,  died yesterday at West Hills Hospital in West Hills, Calif. He was 85 and was portraying the Masked Man long after h
 Lawrence J. Majewski, an internationally known art conservation expert who headed an American team of conservators in Florence, Italy, after flooding there in 1966, died on Dec. 2 at his home in Wappingers Falls, N.Y. He was 80. The cause was leukemia, said Prof. Margaret Holben Ell
 Louis Feraud, a prominent French fashion designer who first made his name in the mid-1950's when Brigitte Bardot began wearing his brightly colored summer dresses, died on Tuesday at his home in Paris. He was 79. French news reports said he had been suffering from Alzheimer's disease.      
 Richard J. Cattani, former editor of The Christian Science Monitor, died on Friday at his home in Wellesley, Mass. He was 63. His wife, Jacqueline, said his death followed a long illness. Mr. Cattani joined The Monitor in 1968 and in the next 29 years held every major report
 Irving Rapper, whose 50-year directorial career reached its peak at the Warner Brothers studio in the 1940's when he made a series of films with Bette Davis and who frequently drew upon his early stage experiences to adapt Broadway hits to the screen, died Dec. 20 at the Motion Picture and 
 Tito Guizar, the limpid-eyed singer and actor who brought Mexican cowboy music to New York and opened the way for Mexican performers in Hollywood, died on Friday in San Antonio. He was 91. Mr. Guizar was the first and most enduring of Mexico's singing charros, as the cowboys in broa
 Bernard Smith, who edited authors like Raymond Chandler, Dashiell Hammett and Langston Hughes at Alfred A. Knopf, wrote well-regarded books and produced such Hollywood films as ''Elmer Gantry'' and ''How the West Was Won,'' died on Dec. 21 at the Beverly Hills Rehabilitation Center in Los A
 Israel Myers, the originator of the London Fog raincoat, died on Sunday at the North Oaks retirement community in Pikesville, Md. He was 93. After making raincoats for the Army in World War II, Mr. Myers's Londontown Manufacturing Company was the first to popularize the military tre
 Reggie Carter, an outstanding guard for the unheralded St. John's University basketball team that came within one game of the National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament's Final Four in 1979, died last Friday at Huntington (N.Y.) Hospital. Carter, who lived in Huntington Station, wa
