 Anthony Corallo, the salty and stoical former boss of the Lucchese crime family who went to jail for life after the authorities overheard him chatting to his driver about the mob's control of New York City's construction industry, died Aug. 23 in a federal prison hospital in Springfield, Mo
 John C. A. Watkins, the longest-serving publisher of The Providence Journal, died Wednesday in Newport Hospital in Rhode Island. He was 87. Mr. Watkins, a decorated World War II fighter pilot, was publisher of The Journal for 25 years, from 1954 to 1979, and retired as chairman of T
 Paul Yager, a veteran federal labor mediator who helped resolve several important labor strikes in the New York City region, died Monday at a hospital in Edison, N.J. He was 80 and lived in Metuchen, N.J. The cause was heart failure, his daughter Deborah Yager said. Mr. Yage
 Bruce Giles, a newspaper executive in the Southeast and a former chairman of the Freedom of Information Committee of the Associated Press Managing Editors association, died on Thursday in Tuscaloosa, Ala. He was 53. The cause of death was cancer. Mr. Giles was executive edit
 Euan Uglow, a British realist artist whose work received high praise in his homeland, died on Thursday in London. He was 68 and lived in London. The cause was cancer, The Times of London reported. Mr. Uglow won particular praise in Britain for his nudes and his still lifes. 
 James A. Cavanagh, a former first deputy mayor who advised Mayor Abraham D. Beame during the depth of New York City's fiscal crisis in the 1970's, died Thursday at a hospice near his home in Boynton Beach, Fla. He was 86. A native of Brooklyn whose career in city government spanned 
 Leon A. Harris Jr., a biographer and a former department store executive, died on Aug. 17 at his home in Dallas. He was 74. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, Jane Wolfe. After graduating from Harvard University in 1947, Mr. Harris began working at A. Harris & C
 Theodore W. Trautwein, the New Jersey judge who sent a reporter to jail in 1978 in a celebrated case that tested the boundaries of press freedom and fair trials, died on Aug. 17 in Hollywood, Fla., where he had lived for the last two years. He was 80. The cause was heart failure, sa
 Vice Admiral Harold G. Bowen Jr., who presided over the Navy's investigation into one of the most wrenching episodes in its history -- the seizure of the electronic surveillance ship Pueblo by North Korea -- died on Aug. 17 at his home in Alexandria, Va. He was 87. The son of an adm
 Robert H. Montgomery Jr., 77, a lawyer for prominent film, theater and art figures and the trustee of the Cole Porter Musical and Literary Property Trusts, died on Saturday at his home in Sag Harbor, N.Y.. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Henriette. His career at the Manhat
 Clyde Sukeforth, the Brooklyn Dodger scout and manager who accompanied Jackie Robinson through two of the Hall of Fame player's milestones as the first African-American in modern baseball, died on Sunday at his home in Waldoboro, Me. He was 98. In 1945, when the major league teams h
 Lawrence Fellows, a former foreign correspondent for The New York Times and later an editor at local newspapers in Connecticut, died on Saturday at his home in Westport, Conn. He was 75. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Ruth. Mr. Fellows reported for The Times fr
 Abdul Haris Nasution, a soldier and politician who fought for Indonesia's independence from the Netherlands and may have missed a chance to lead his nation, died today in a Jakarta hospital. He was 81 and had been in a coma since a recent stroke. General Nasution (pronounced na-SU-t
 George Musso, a Hall of Fame lineman and captain of the Chicago Bears when they ruled professional football before and during World War II, died Tuesday in Edwardsville, Ill. He was 90. Musso, called Moose, played for the Bears from 1933 to 1944, when they were known as the Monsters
 John Alexander Simpson, a nuclear physicist and astrophysicist whose instruments have been sending data back from space for nearly 40 years, died on Aug. 31 in Chicago. He was 83 and lived in the Hyde Park neighborhood of Chicago. The cause was complications after open heart surgery
 Dr. C. Philip Wilson, an expert in the treatment of eating disorders and other severe psychosomatic problems, died on Aug. 17 at his home in Manhattan. He was 79. The cause was heart disease, said his son Scott, a psychiatrist. While a resident in psychiatry at Columbia-Pres
 David R. Altman, a fashion advertising executive whose tag lines did for bolts of fabric what tigers in tanks had done for gasoline, died on Aug. 30 in New York. He was 85. The cause was complications of lymphoma, said his wife, Floria V. Lasky. As chairman of Altman, Stolle
 Martin Lang, an engineer and water pollution expert who was a New York City commissioner in the Lindsay and Beame administrations, died Monday at a hospital in Roslyn, N.Y., where he lived. He was 85. Trained as an environmental engineer and chemist, he worked for the city for four 
 Theodore L. Deglin, a longtime public relations executive, died in Manhattan on Aug. 15. He was 92 and lived on the Upper East Side. Mr. Deglin, known as Ted, was Madison Square Garden's public relations director from 1935 until he entered the Army in 1942. He became a colon
 Adrian P. Burke, a former associate judge of New York State's highest court who was also New York City corporation counsel, died last Sunday at his retirement home in Lauderhill, Fla. A former resident of Manhattan, he was 95. Judge Burke was the city's chief lawyer twice, though br
 David A. Charny, a Harvard Law School professor who was an expert on employment and corporate law and who advised student demonstrators, died on Aug. 31 at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 44. He died after a short illness, said Michael J. Chmura, the law school's news director. 
 Edward Anhalt, a prolific Academy Award-winning screenwriter best known for his work on the films ''Becket'' and ''Jeremiah Johnson,'' died on Sunday at his home in Pacific Palisades, Calif. He was 86. A native of New York and a graduate of Columbia University, Mr. Anhalt worked as 
 George Edmund Sandell, a versatile viola and violin player, teacher and inventor, died on Aug. 26 in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 88 and lived in Santa Monica. Born in Malmo, Sweden, Mr. Sandell grew up in Denver and graduated from Denver University in 1933 with a bachelor's degree i
 Joseph Louis Marino, a lawyer and legal educator, died on Sept. 1 at his home in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 85. Mr. Marino founded a popular review course for the New York State bar examination in the 1940's. In 1964, he ran unsuccessfully as the Democratic candidate for Congress
 Rebert H. Harris, the lead singer for the Soul Stirrers, whose style was the fountainhead for generations of gospel and soul singers, died on Sept. 3 in Chicago. He was 84 and lived in Chicago. Mr. Harris had a pure, high tenor voice that he used for syncopated moans and slurs and l
 Bob Cummins, who ran the small jazz record label India Navigation, which documented much of the avant-garde loft-jazz scene that blossomed in Manhattan during the 70's and 80's in underused buildings  downtown, died on Aug. 17 at his home in Manhattan. He was 68. The cause was prost
 Donald Gallup, the Yale literary bibliographer who in 1968 confirmed the discovery of the long-lost manuscript of T. S. Eliot's ''Waste Land,'' died in Branford, Conn., on Wednesday. He was 87. Mr. Gallup spent more than 30 years as a curator in the Yale Collection of American Liter
 William A. Lubbers, the National Labor Relations Board's general counsel from 1979 to 1984, died on Aug. 26. He was 75 and lived in Bethesda, Md. The cause was an abdominal aortic aneurysm he suffered at his home, his son Jeffrey said. Mr. Lubbers was a lawyer with the labor
 Robert E. Dewar, the former chairman and chief executive of the Kmart Corporation, who led the company's huge expansion of retail stores nationwide, died at his home on Thursday. He was 77 and lived in Bloomfield Hills, Mich. The cause of death was complications from colon cancer, s
 David Elliott Bell, who was President John F. Kennedy's director of the Bureau of the Budget and then his administrator of the Agency for International Development, died on Wednesday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 81. The cause was leukemia, said his daughter, Susan Bell.   
 Seybourn H. Lynne, the federal judge who in 1963 prohibited Gov. George C. Wallace from barring two black students from attending the University of Alabama, died on Sunday in Birmingham. He was 93 and was the longest serving active judge on the federal bench. ''The governor of a sov
 Lt.Gen. William W. Quinn, an intelligence officer during World War II and an infantry commander in the Korean conflict, died today at Walter Reed Army Hospital. He was 92. In more than 30 years in the military, General Quinn held a variety of senior posts. As an intelligence
 Dr. Herbert Friedman, a pioneer in X-ray astronomy who received some of the country's top scientific honors over a 60-year career, died on Saturday. He was 84 and lived in Arlington, Va. A prolific scientist who published some 300 papers, Dr. Friedman conducted his earliest 
 Joseph H. Lewis, whose gritty, fast-paced low-budget films so transcended the conventions of the B-movie that filmmakers and screenwriters like Martin Scorsese, Peter Bogdanovich and Jay Cocks were moved to elevate him to the pantheon of auteurs, died on Aug. 30. He was 93 and lived in Mari
 Malcolm K. Hughes, a former editor in chief of United Press International, died on Monday in Arlington, Va. He was 66. Mr. Hughes, known as Mike, had stomach cancer, U.P.I. reported. Born of British parents in India, he served in the Royal Air Force and was hired by what is 
 Dr. William A. Nierenberg, a physicist with a passion for the ocean who spent five decades striving to mesh science, technology and policy as an adviser to presidents, military agencies and NATO, died Sunday at his home in San Diego. He was 81. The cause was cancer, according to a s
 Donald Whyte, a violinist in the New York Philharmonic, died on Sunday at Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 68 and lived in Pleasantville, N.Y. The cause was complications after surgery, said Eric Latzky, a spokesman for the Philharmonic. Mr. Whyte was born
 Konrad Kujau, a raffish German swindler who sold 60 volumes of forged ''Hitler diaries'' to a German magazine for $4.8 million, died on Tuesday in a hospital in Stuttgart, Germany. He was 62. The cause was stomach cancer, a family member said. Mr. Kujau's bogus handiwork, de
 Stanley Turrentine, a jazz tenor saxophonist whose blues-based, easygoing style appealed to a market wider than the jazz world for 40 years, died on Tuesday at New York Presbyterian Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 66 and lived in Fort Washington, Md. The cause was a stroke, 
 Warren J. Wolfe, a former advertising director at The New York Times, died on Sept. 1 in Westhampton Beach, N.Y. He was 83. Mr. Wolfe was born in Great Neck, N.Y. After serving as a first lieutenant in the Army in World War II, he worked in advertising sales at The World Telegram in
 Frederick Henry Koch Jr., a professor of drama at the University of Miami who is credited with creating the first fully flexible theater building in the round in the United States, died on Aug. 26 at his home in Miami. He was 88. Mr. Koch, who was born in Grand Forks, N.D., received
 Julius Schulman, a widely traveled violinist who played in several major American orchestras, including the Philadelphia Orchestra, the Boston Symphony and the Metropolitan Opera Orchestra, died on Saturday at Brotman Hospital in Culver City, Calif. He was 84 and lived in Culver City.      
 W. Page Thompson, an executive in the publishing industry, died on Sunday in New York. He was 73. The cause of death was cancer, said his son Page. Mr. Thompson became publisher of American Home magazine in 1972. Two years later, he became publisher and president of Girl Talk, which
 William H. Pitt, a real estate executive and philanthropist, died on Saturday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 73 and also lived in Palm Beach, Fla. He died after a brief illness, his family said. Mr. Pitt was born in Stamford, Conn., and established the William Pitt R
 William Clements Warren, a former dean of Columbia Law School who rebuilt it as it entered the modern era, died on Monday. He was 91. As first the leader of, then a major donor to, the law school where two buildings now bear his name, Mr. Warren had an influence there that spanned f
 Aaron W. Warner, a left-leaning lawyer who began his career as one of Felix Frankfurter's ''bright young men'' in the New Deal, and then switched careers at 46 to be a Columbia University professor and administrator for almost half a century, died on Aug. 25 in Manhattan. He was 92.        
 George Christopher, who as San Francisco's mayor persuaded the New York Giants to move to California, died on Thursday in San Francisco. He was 92. Mr. Christopher, a Republican, served two terms as mayor from 1956 through 1964. He got off to a strong start: when he was elected in 1
 Douglas T. Jacobson, who received the Medal of Honor as a Marine private for single-handedly storming enemy positions on Iwo Jima, an action resulting in the deaths of 75 Japanese soldiers, died Aug. 20 at a hospital in Port Charlotte, Fla. He was 74 and lived in North Port, Fla. He
 Richard B. Thomas, a former publisher of Time magazine who helped start People magazine, died Thursday at his home in Old Greenwich, Conn. He was 69. The cause was cancer, said his son, Charles B. Thomas. Mr. Thomas was part of the last generation of Time Inc. executives to 
 Robert L. Schweitzer, a retired Army general who was ousted from his post at the National Security Council in 1981 after warning of a ''drift toward war'' with the Soviet Union, died on Saturday at Walter Reed Army Hospital in Washington. He was 72. General Schweitzer, who lived in 
 William Brian Little, an investment banker who was a founding partner of Forstmann Little, the New York leveraged-buyout firm, died on Sunday in Manhattan. He was 58 and maintained residences in Manhattan; Amagansett, N.Y.; and Santa Barbara, Calif. The cause was cardiac arrest, sai
 George Sands, whose association with golf in the metropolitan area encompassed more than seven decades of service and leadership, died in his sleep last Saturday night at his home in Manhattan. He was 99. When he was 97, Mr. Sands, who was born in New York City in 1901, was the olde
 Jerzy Giedroyc, a founding editor of Kultura, a Polish literary and political magazine published in Paris that championed the exiled Polish democratic opposition movement, died on Thursday in Paris. He was 94 and lived in Paris. A leading figure of postwar Polish culture, Mr. Giedro
 The Rev. Ellwood Kieser, an Emmy Award-winning Roman Catholic priest who blended religious commitment with a passion for making socially aware film and television, died on Saturday in Los Angeles. He was 71 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was colon cancer, said the Rev. Frank De
 Richard A. Holman, an inventive publisher and editor who foresaw the market for specialized business information services and was involved in an important legal test case to distinguish true business journalism from tout sheets, died on Monday at New York University Hospital. He was 77.    
 The Rev. Edward O. Miller, an outspoken liberal Episcopal minister who was the longtime rector of St. George's Episcopal Church in Manhattan, died on Saturday in Bangor, Me. He was 84 and lived in Castine, Me. Mr. Miller was the rector of St. George's from 1946 to 1975. The church i
 Kert Lundell, a set designer for more than 75 Broadway and Off Broadway productions who won three Drama Desk Awards, died on Sept. 11. He was 64 and lived in  Manhattan. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Bretta. Mr. Lundell, whose career spanned four decades, created
 Nathan Kroll, a film producer whose background as a Juilliard-trained violinist informed his award-winning television documentaries about the cellist Pablo Casals, the violinist Jascha Heifetz and the tenor Luciano Pavarotti, among other musical subjects, died last Thursday after a long ill
 Peter Pinchbeck, an English-born painter who worked in an Abstract Expressionist vein, was found dead in his loft in SoHo on Sept. 10. He was 69. The cause was cardiovascular hypertensive disease, his family said. He was found by friends after they became concerned when he failed to
 Dr. William G. Sharwell, president of Pace University from 1984 to 1990, died on Monday in Rye, N.Y. He was 80 and lived much of his life in Bronxville, N.Y. The cause was lung fibrosis, his wife said. Before becoming president of Pace, Dr. Sharwell was affiliated with AT&T 
 Edward S. Gordon, a commercial real estate broker who built one of the largest real estate service companies in the New York metropolitan region, died yesterday at his home in Water Mill, N.Y. He was 65 and lived on Long Island and in New York City. The cause was colon cancer, said 
 Gen. Gherman Stepanovich Titov, a fighter pilot who in 1961 became the second Russian to fly in space and the first man to sleep there, died on Wednesday while taking a sauna in his apartment here, officials said today. He turned 65 on Sept. 10. Initial reports said he died of carbo
 Eric Stiebel, chairman of Rosenberg & Stiebel, an internationally known art gallery that specialized in European old master paintings and decorative arts, died on Thursday, his family said. He was 89. Born in Germany, Mr. Stiebel moved to New York from Frankfurt-am-Main in 1939, aft
 Neal Gilliatt, an advertising executive who oversaw the Coca-Cola account for McCann-Erickson and, later, its parent, the Interpublic Group of Companies, died Wednesday in a Milwaukee hospital after suffering a stroke on a business trip. He was 82 and lived in Greenwich, Conn. Mr. G
 David Flusser, among the first Israeli scholars to scrutinize ancient religious texts for clues to the Jewish roots of Christianity, died in Jersualem on Sept. 15, his 83rd birthday. After poring over new archaeological discoveries like the Dead Sea Scrolls, Dr. Flusser popularized 
 Phillip Glasier, who helped revive the ancient sport of falconry, writing what some consider its bible and starting the National Birds of Prey Center in Britain, died at his home in Gloucestershire on Sept. 11. He was 84. Mr. Glasier, one of only a handful of falconers in Britain wh
 Yehuda Amichai, the Israeli poet who distilled his experience -- and his nation's -- into highly metaphorical verse written in Hebrew and translated into more than 25 languages, died yesterday in Jerusalem. He was 76. He died of a rare form of lymphoma, said Stanley Moss, a poet and
 Carl T. Rowan, the crusading journalist, best-selling author and defender of affirmative action, proud to call himself a liberal, died today. He was 75 and lived in Washington. Mr. Rowan, who had been hospitalized for various illnesses in recent weeks, died in the intensive 
 Hideo Sasaki, an internationally renowned landscape architect who was as admired for his teaching and critical abilities as for his multidisciplinary approach to design, died on Aug. 30 at a hospital in Walnut Creek, Calif. He was 80 and lived in nearby Lafayette, Calif. Mr. Sasaki 
 James Elliott, an innovative museum director and curator and an amateur filmmaker, died Thursday at his home, a houseboat, in Sausalito, Calif. He was 76. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said. Mr. Elliott was known for a string of impressive proteges in th
 Harold B. Barg, a sales and marketing agent in the United States for owners of well-known vineyards and wineries in the Burgundy region of France, died on Sept. 18 in Dijon, France. He was 75, lived in Roseland, N.J., and was on a business trip. The cause was leukemia, his family sa
 Lee Erwin, a theater organist who composed scores for more than 70 silent films and whose performances helped create a revival of interest in silent films during the 1970's, died on Thursday at his home in Greenwich Village. He was 92. Mr. Erwin was an energetic musician who maintai
 The sixth Duke of Sutherland, a Scottish landowner who held one of the largest private collections of old master paintings in the world, died on Thursday. He was 85 and lived on the family estate near St. Boswells, Scotland. The duke's collection, inherited down the line from a long
 Roberto Baden Powell de Aquino, the musician whose blend of African, jazz and classical influences gained him renown as one of Brazil's greatest guitarists, died yesterday in Rio de Janeiro. He was 63. The cause was pneumonia and multiple organ failure, said Alexandre Raine, his pub
 Lawrence G. Hauck, a former news editor of The New York Times, died yesterday at a hospice in Winston-Salem, N.C. He was 88 and lived in High Point, N.C. In almost three decades at The Times, Mr. Hauck oversaw a diverse array of the newspaper's operations, from managing United Natio
 Adm. Horacio Rivero Jr., a former vice chief of naval operations and ambassador to Spain, died on Sunday at his home in Coronado, Calif. He was 90. Admiral Rivero was vice chief of naval operations from 1961 to 1968. A fluent Spanish-speaker who was born in Puerto Rico, he was the N
 Arthur E. Goldschmidt, a United Nations economist who became an ambassador at the United Nations, died on Thursday at a retirement community in Haverford, Pa. He was 90. Mr. Goldschmidt was the United States representative at the United Nations Economic and Social Council from 1967 
 Heberto Padilla, an acclaimed Cuban poet whose criticism of Fidel Castro's rule landed him first in jail and later in exile, died on Monday in Auburn, Ala., where he had recently become a writer in residence at Auburn University. He was 68. Mr. Padilla was found dead in his apartmen
 Raoul Berger, a widely read and widely debated authority on the United States Constitution, died on Saturday at his home in Concord, Mass., his wife, Patricia, said. He was 99. Mr. Berger's interpretation of the framers' intentions thrilled liberals when he castigated President Rich
 Frank Wills, the night watchman who discovered the 1972 Watergate burglary, which ultimately led to President Richard M. Nixon's resignation, died on Wednesday. He was 52 and lived in North Augusta, S.C. Mr. Wills, who struggled with celebrity and joblessness after being hailed as h
 Nat Fein, who won a Pulitzer Prize for capturing one of the sports world's most poignant images, a rear-view photograph of a dying Babe Ruth receiving his final accolade at Yankee Stadium in June 1948, died Tuesday at Pascack Valley Hospital in Westwood, N.J. He was 86 and lived in Tappan, 
 Pierre Elliott Trudeau, the long-serving prime minister of Canada who successfully defended his vision of federalism and a unified nation against the aroused forces of Quebec separatism, died yesterday in Montreal. He was 80. Mr. Trudeau suffered from Parkinson's disease and prostat
 Richard Mulligan, who won Emmy Awards for his portrayal of fathers on the situation comedies ''Soap'' and ''Empty Nest,'' died Tuesday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 67. The cause was cancer, said his friend and assistant, David Fisher. Although he achieved his greatest 
 Carl Sigman, who wrote music or words for dozens of songs to which generations have tapped their toes, including the theme song to the 1950's ''Robin Hood'' television series (''Robin Hood, Robin Hood, Riding through the glen'') died at his home in Manhasset, N.Y., on Tuesday. He was 91.   
 Joseph A. Ball, a California trial attorney who was a senior counsel to the Warren Commission, which investigated the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, died on Sept. 21 in Long Beach, Calif. He was 97 and a longtime resident of Long Beach. At his death, Mr. Ball was a part
 Peter Gennaro, whose choreography for the 1977 hit musical ''Annie'' won him a Tony and whose dance sequences and dancing entertained millions on Perry Como's ''Kraft Music Hall'' in the 1960's, died on Thursday. Mr. Gennaro, who lived in Manhattan and maintained a home for many years in Ox
 Robert W. Blanchette, a former head of the Federal Railroad Administration and a former chief executive of the Penn Central Transportation Company, died Monday at Georgetown Hospital in Washington. He was 68 and lived in Bethesda, Md. He died after an extended illness, said a friend
