 Former Senator Alan Cranston of California, who balanced the roles of crusader and behind-the-scenes deal-maker during a long political career until he was brought down by the savings and loan scandal of the late 1980's, died yesterday at the age of 86. Mr. Cranston, a Democrat who 
 Julius J. Epstein, a screenwriter of sharp, sardonic dialogue who won an Academy Award for the script of ''Casablanca,'' died here on Saturday. He was 91. Mr. Epstein wrote more than 50 movies in a 50-year career. He and his identical twin, Philip, were responsible for the wit and c
 Al Gross, also known as Phineas Thaddeus Veeblefetzer, granddaddy of citizens' band radio, who tinkered with all manner of electronic gear before people just had to have them, died on Dec. 21 at a hospice in Sun City, Ariz., his hometown. He was 82. Mr. Gross died after a brief illn
 Lord Aldington, a British politician and an executive who won the highest libel damages ever awarded by a British court in his suit against a great-nephew of the Russian novelist Leo Tolstoy, died on Dec. 7 at his home in southern England. He was 86. Lord Aldington's long dispute wi
 William Francis Donnelly, a second-generation newspaperman who helped build the Army Times Publishing Company and the Times-Journal Company into the nation's largest publisher of military newspapers, died today at his home in Potomac, Md., a Washington suburb. He was 76. The cause w
 Dr. Arnold A. Hutschnecker, who for many years served as Richard M. Nixon's psychotherapist and who once said that Nixon ''didn't have a serious psychiatric diagnosis'' but  had ''a good portion of neurotic symptoms,'' died on Thursday at his home in Sherman, Conn. He was 102. Dr. H
 Ray Walston, who won a Tony Award for playing the Devil opposite Gwen Verdon in the Broadway musical ''Damn Yankees,'' repeated his role in the film version and went on to a long career playing eccentric, oddly endearing characters in movies and on television, died on Monday at his home in 
 Charlie Lourie, a co-founder of the  jazz reissue label Mosaic, died on Sunday at his home in Stamford, Conn. He was 60. Michael Cuscuna, his partner at Mosaic, said Mr. Lourie had been suffering from scleroderma, a rare viral disease, for the last three years. Mosaic, start
 Harold Burroughs Rhodes, who invented an electric piano that became indispensable to jazz, funk and pop musicians, died on Dec. 17 in Los Angeles. He was 89. Mr. Rhodes's instrument, which was manufactured by Fender as the Fender Rhodes piano, used a pianolike keyboard, responsive t
 Jose Greco, who brought Spanish dancing to huge new audiences in the United States and Europe in the 1940's and 50's, died on Sunday at his home in Lancaster, Pa. He was 82. Born in Italy and raised in Brooklyn, Mr. Greco came to embody the art of Spanish dancing for many, in perfor
 Lionel Hebert, who joined with Jay Hebert to form one of golf's leading brother combinations, each of them winners of the P.G.A. Championship, died on Saturday at his home in Lafayette, La. He was 72. He had congestive heart failure, diabetes and kidney problems, his wife, Clara Bel
 Marty Glickman, who always believed he was denied a chance to compete in the 1936 Berlin Olympics because of anti-Semitism but later became the pre-eminent radio voice in New York sports, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 83. He died from complications after
 Sebastian de Grazia, a political philosopher and Pulitzer Prize-winning biographer, died on Sunday in Princeton, N.J. He was 83. Professor de Grazia, who taught political philosophy at Rutgers University from 1962 to 1988, won the 1990 Pulitzer Prize for biography for his book ''Mac
 William P. Rogers, a suave and well-connected Republican lawyer who was secretary of state under President Richard M. Nixon and attorney general in the Eisenhower administration, died on Tuesday in Bethesda, Md. He was 87. Mr. Rogers lived in Bethesda and worked in the Washington of
 James Charles Corman, a 10-term  congressman from California who helped steer the 1964 Civil Rights Act to passage, died on Saturday at a rehabilitation center in Arlington, Va., where he was being treated after a stroke. He was 80 and lived in McLean, Va. A liberal Democrat, he ser
 Edwin D. Dodd, chairman emeritus of Owens-Illinois Inc., died on Tuesday at a hospice near his home in Perrysburg Township, Ohio, a suburb of Toledo. He was 81. The cause was cancer, said John E. Hoff, an Owens-Illinois spokesman. While spending his entire professional caree
 John F. Hayes, a retired State Supreme Court justice and former interim borough president of Brooklyn, died on Wednesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 85 and lived in Brooklyn. Mr. Hayes, a Democrat, was born in Brooklyn and graduated from Brooklyn Preparatory School, 
 Les Brown, whose Band of Renown  was one of the most enduring orchestras that grew out of the swing era of the 1930's, died on Thursday night at his home in Los Angeles. He was 88. Mr. Brown was one of the last  swing bandleaders to remain active as the century drew to a close. He a
 Ralph Bennett Ryder, one of three siblings who, at the nadir of the Depression, created a little trucking company that became the worldwide billion-dollar powerhouse known as Ryder System, died Dec. 28 at a hospital in Coral Gables, Fla. He was 90 and lived in Miami. The Ryder story
 Thomas F. Patton, a former chairman of Republic Steel, once one of America's Big Three steel makers, died on Tuesday at his home in Shaker Heights, Ohio. He was 97. Republic hired Mr. Patton in 1936 to form an internal legal department; he had already been an outside lawyer for six 
 William Karlton Jacoby, a former director of industrial design for The New York Times, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Boca Raton, Fla., where he lived in retirement. He was 80. The cause was cardiac arrest after surgery, his family said. Mr. Jacoby, a Manhattan native, t
 Dr. Sadek K. Hilal, a Columbia University radiologist who helped advance the science of imaging technology, died Dec. 24 at his home in Englewood Cliffs, N.J. He was 70. Dr. Hilal suffered a stroke, his family said. From 1979 until he took emeritus status four years ago, he 
 Francis Sumner Merritt, the founding director of Haystack Mountain School of Crafts in Deer Isle, Me., who helped to give the study and practice of crafts an international aspect, died on Dec. 27 at his home in Belfast, Me. He was 87. Last September Mr. Merritt and his wife, Priscil
 Frederick Drimmer, who wrote and edited books that explored both the painful and the macabre, died on Dec. 24 in Norwalk, Conn. He was 83 and lived in Norwalk. Mr. Drimmer was the editor of the book ''Scalps and Tomahawks: Narratives of Indian Captivity'' (1961). Reviewing it in The
 George Carman, a libel lawyer who became a courtroom legend for his ability to woo juries with wit and warmth while doing in opponents with one-liners and devastating 11th-hour disclosures, died of prostate cancer last Tuesday at his home in Wimbledon. He was 71 and had retired on his docto
 Milan Hlavsa, the founder, composer and bassist of the Plastic People of the Universe, an underground Czech rock band that galvanized a movement for human rights and democracy, died Friday at his home in Prague. He was 49. The cause was cancer, the group's management said. W
 Charles Helou, who was Lebanon's president and head of state from 1964 to 1970, an era of growing threats and of incipient conflict, died on Sunday at a hospital in Zalka, north of Beirut. He was 88 and had recently lived in Kasslik, also north of the capital. The cause was a heart 
 Willard J. Jacobson, a retired professor of natural sciences at Teachers College at Columbia University, and the author or co-author of more than 5O books, many on the teaching of science, died on Dec. 29 at his home in Duxbury, Mass. He was 78. The cause was Parkinson's disease, sa
 Bernard J. Geis, a book publisher whose company, Bernard Geis Associates, was a pioneer of the aggressive promotion of sensational best sellers in the 1960's and 1970's, died on Monday at New York Presbyterian Hospital. He was 91 years old. Mr. Geis, who started his company in 1959,
 Dr. Horace Albert Barker, a microbiologist and biochemist who helped to unravel the complex processes of chemical conversion inside living organisms, died on Dec. 24 at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 93. Dr. Barker made his mark in the 1950's by tracing the biochemical function
 James Carr, a singer whose 1966 recording of ''(At the) Dark End of the Street'' was a masterpiece of Memphis soul, died on Sunday in Memphis. He was 58 and lived in Memphis. The cause was cancer, said his friend and producer Quinton Claunch. With a robust baritone that embr
 The Rev. Dr. David H. C. Read, who brought his Calvinist theology, a outspoken approach to contemporary issues and a showman's verve to the pulpit of one of New York City's most prominent churches, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 91. Dr. Read, who was always called t
 Lowell Perry, an all-American receiver at the University of Michigan, the first black assistant coach in the National Football League's modern era and the chairman of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in the Ford administration, died Sunday at a hospital in Southfield, Mich. He wa
 The Rev. Dr. David H. C. Read, who brought his Calvinist theology, a outspoken approach to contemporary issues and a showman's verve to the pulpit of one of New York City's most prominent churches, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 91. Dr. Read, who was always called t
 Esteban Vicente, one of the last surviving members of the first generation of New York School painters, died on Wednesday at his home in Bridgehampton, N.Y. He was 97. Mr. Vicente, who also had a home in New York City, was tall and slim with a reserved, patrician manner. His abstrac
 Rabbi Yitzchok Singer, whose leadership of the historic Bialystoker Synagogue on the Lower East Side of Manhattan helped it thrive despite four decades of community change, died on Sunday at Beth Israel Medical Center. He was 72. He died of a heart attack, a spokesman for the synago
 Sir Denys Lasdun, a central figure in European midcentury modernist architecture whose most noted building, the sprawling Royal National Theater on the south bank of the Thames, still inspires praise and opprobrium, died here on Thursday. He was 86 and lived in London. Charles, the 
 John Pierrepont, a philanthropist who was prominent in nonprofit organizations based in New York City, died on Wednesday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 84. Mr. Pierrepont was with Delafield & Delafield, an investment firm based in Manhattan, for a time, begi
 Robert A. Love, an economist and businessman who helped develop a type of life insurance that covered the value of home mortgages, died in his sleep on Jan. 5 at his apartment in New York. He was 102 years old. Mr. Love served as a professor and administrator in the City College sys
 William Redington Hewlett, the electrical engineer who in 1938 with David Packard pulled together $538 to set up a tiny electronics company in a Palo Alto, Calif., garage that ultimately led to the creation of Silicon Valley, died today at his home in Portola Valley, Calif. He was 87.      
 Vice Adm. Harry DeWolf, a destroyer commander who was Canada's most highly decorated naval officer of World War II, died Dec. 18 in his home in Ottawa. He was 97. Admiral DeWolf's destroyer, Haida, which survives as a floating museum and war memorial on the Toronto waterfront, sank 
 Dr. Milton I. Roemer, a physician whose research on public health systems helped to shape health policy in the United States and other countries, died on Jan. 3 at a Los Angeles hospital. He was 84 and lived in Los Angeles. Dr. Roemer retired in 1986 as a professor in the U.C.L.A. S
 Murray Aronoff, a crew member of a retired steamship, the Exodus 1947, on its aborted voyage to transport 4,500 Jewish refugees from France to Palestine in 1947, died on Dec. 30 at North Shore University Hospital-Cornell University Medical College in Plainview. He was 75. The cause 
 Ben Cutler, an orchestra leader whose sounds ushered the society set from swing to rock and disco and back again, died on Jan. 5 in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 96. For more than 60 years, Mr. Cutler was a fixture on the society circuit, weathering the advent of rock 'n' roll and the dec
 Edwin D. Etherington, who left the the top post at the American Stock Exchange to become president of Wesleyan University, died Jan. 8 at his home in Jupiter Island, Fla. He was 76. Mr. Etherington, a writer and lawyer by education, was a staunch civil rights advocate by avocation. 
 Eugene K. Tonkonogy, a real estate entrepreneur who fell in love with a Caribbean island when he read a magazine article about it and did not rest until he bought it years later, died on Dec. 30 in his apartment in Manhattan. He was 95. The island was Marina Cay, an eight-acre dot o
 Dr. H. Corwin Hinshaw, a lung specialist who pioneered the use of streptomycin to treat tuberculosis, died on Dec. 28 at his home in San Rafael, Calif. He was 98. As a young researcher at the Mayo Clinic in Minnesota in the early 1940's, he took part in a major effort to conquer tub
 Jack McVea, a tenor saxophonist and bandleader who was a writer of the 1947 novelty hit ''Open the Door, Richard,'' died on Dec. 27 in Los Angeles. He was 86. Mr. McVea started out playing ukulele in a band led by his father, the banjoist Isaac (Satchel) McVea, who was the first bla
 Lt. Col. Jimmy Yule, who as a British Army officer at the Colditz prisoner of war camp in World War II operated a clandestine radio receiving coded intelligence messages and organized a P.O.W. musical group that helped orchestrate escapes, died Dec. 25 in Colchester, England. He was 84.    
 Victor Braun, a Canadian baritone whose repertory included many contemporary roles, died Jan. 6 in Ulm, Germany. He was 65 and lived in Brussels. The cause was Shy-Drager syndrome, a neurodegenerative disease, said Moira Johnson, his spokeswoman. Mr. Braun was born in Windso
 Frederick W. Hughes, Andy Warhol's business manager for more than 25 years, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 57. The cause was complications of multiple sclerosis, a disease from which he had suffered for 18 years, said Mary-Beth Hansard, his sister. The impec
 Kwang-chih Chang, a Harvard anthropologist known for his work documenting Chinese civilization of the Bronze Age, died on Jan. 3 at a nursing home in Boston. He was 69 and had lived in Cambridge, Mass. The cause was respiratory failure because of complications from Parkinson's disea
 Kenneth Haas, who held managerial positions with the Boston Symphony and other American orchestras, died on Saturday in Newton Upper Falls, Mass. He was 57. The cause is still to be determined, pending an autopsy, said Caroline Smedvig, a spokeswoman for the Boston Symphony.        
 Edward Mangum, a director and teacher who was a founder of Arena Stage in Washington, one of the nation's leading regional theaters, died on Wednesday in Austin, Tex., where he lived. He was 87. Mr. Mangum's career in theater began in 1947, shortly after he graduated from Catholic U
 Hammond E. Chaffetz, a leading antitrust lawyer who won a big price-fixing case against the oil industry in the depths of the Depression and went on to build a little Chicago law office into one of the nation's largest law firms, Kirkland & Ellis, died on Friday, the firm said yesterday. He
 John W. Rhoden, a sculptor who worked primarily in wood and bronze, died on Jan. 4 in St. Albans, Queens. He was 82 and lived in Brooklyn. Mr. Rhoden's commissioned works include ''Monumental Abstraction,'' on the exterior of the Metropolitan Hospital in Harlem; a nine-foot bronze s
 Luiz Bonfa, a guitarist and composer who was one of the originators of Brazilian bossa nova, died on Friday in Rio de Janeiro. He was 78. The cause was prostate cancer, said Arnaldo de Souteiro, his longtime record producer. Mr. Bonfa, who recorded more than 50 albums, was t
 Auberon Waugh, an acerbic and often outrageous journalist, satirist and critic, and the eldest son of the novelist Evelyn Waugh, died on Tuesday at his home in Taunton, Somerset, England. He was 61. He had been suffering from a heart condition and died in his sleep, his wife, Teresa
 Dr. John Nevil Insall, a pioneer of knee replacement surgery whose prostheses helped restore mobility to thousands of people, died Dec. 30 at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 70 and lived on the Upper East Side and in Westport, Conn. The cause was lung cancer, said Dr
 Leonard Woodcock, who succeeded Walter P. Reuther as president of the United Automobile Workers and  was envoy to China during the Carter administration, negotiating the historic re-establishment of full relations between the United States and China in 1979, died on Tuesday at his home in A
 Gregory Corso, a poet and leading member of the Beat literary movement that shook American social and political life in the late 1950's and 60's, died on Wednesday in Robbinsdale, Minn., where he lived with his daughter Sheri Langerman. He was 70. The cause was prostate cancer, Ms. 
 Morris Lapidus, an architect long derided and later praised for designing some of South Florida's gaudiest, glitziest and most glamorous hotels in the 1950's and 60's, died yesterday at his home in Miami Beach. He was 98 and lived in a white high-rise he designed that stands near three of h
 Dr. Leon J. Warshaw, a former city health affairs official and founder of the New York Business Group on Health, an information exchange for employers that provide benefits for more than one million workers and family members, died at his home in Manhattan on Jan. 3. He was 83. The 
 Harvey J. Klaris, a producer of the Tony Award-winning musical ''Nine,'' died on Jan. 12 in New York. He was 61 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Jane. Mr. Klaris, a lawyer and investment banker, was a producer of the Broadway show ''The Tap
 Leonard Davis, a leading philanthropist and the founder of the Colonial Penn Group, an insurance company that pioneered insurance programs for the elderly, died Monday while on a cruise to South America. He was 76 years old and lived in Palm Beach, Fla. The cause of death was conges
 Stan Freeman, the pianist, composer, comedian and writer who was a ubiquitous presence in New York nightclubs in 1950's and 60's, was found dead in his home in Los Angeles last Saturday. He was 80. A classically trained pianist, renowned wit and passionate musical theater archivist,
 Eddie Donovan, the Knicks' general manager who built the electrifying team that captured the 1970 National Basketball Association championship -- the first title in the club's history -- died yesterday in Bernardsville, N.J. He was 78. The cause was complications of a stroke, his fa
 Dr. Joseph L. Melnick, a founder of modern virology, a pioneer in polio research and a leader in environmental science, died on Jan. 7 in Houston, where he worked for more than 40 years at the Baylor College of Medicine. He was 86. The cause was Alzheimer's disease, his wife, Dr. Ma
 C. Malcolm Watkins, a museum curator and collector of everyday objects who believed that American culture could be distilled in an earthenware teacup, died on Jan. 12 in Leesburg, Va. He was 89 and lived in Reston, Va. Mr. Watkins spent 31 years of his career at the Smithsonian Inst
 Dr. Stanley F. Yolles, who as the nation's top official on mental health in the 1960's denounced what he saw as ''stupid, punitive laws'' on drug use and was eventually forced out by the Nixon administration, died on Jan. 12 at University Hospital in Stony Brook, N.Y. He was 81 and lived in
 Eddie Donovan, the Knicks' general manager who built the electrifying team that captured the 1970 National Basketball Association championship -- the first title in the club's history -- died Saturday in Bernardsville, N.J. He was 78. The cause was complications of a stroke, his fam
 Joseph Pellegrino, an Italian immigrant who became an executive in the pasta industry and coined the popular slogan, ''Wednesday is Prince Spaghetti Day,'' died last Monday at his home in Hallandale, Fla. He was 95. Mr. Pellegrino was a former chief executive at the Prince Company i
 Norris Turney, a jazz saxophonist, clarinetist and flutist who played in the last incarnation of Duke Ellington's orchestra, died on Wednesday in Kettering, Ohio. He was 79. The cause was kidney failure, said his agent, Russ Dantzler. As heard on some of Ellington's last rec
 Thomas J. Mirabile, a retired justice of the New York State Supreme Court and a past member of the New York City Council, died Wednesday at a hospital in Mineola, N.Y., near his home. He was 92. He was born in Brooklyn on March 22, 1908 and received a degree in business administrati
 Byron De La Beckwith, whose 1994 conviction in the murder of a civil rights leader three decades earlier symbolized a transformation in Mississippi, died on Sunday night in Jackson, Miss. He was 80. Mr. Beckwith died at the University of Mississippi Medical Center shortly after he w
 Claude Victor Palisca, a musicologist who specialized in the Renaissance, died on Jan. 10 in New Haven. He was 79 and lived in New Haven. Mr. Palisca was one of the outstanding musical scholars of his generation. His particular interest was in the stylistic turning point that took p
 Tommie Agee, the center fielder who made two of the most spectacular catches in World Series history in propelling the Mets to their stunning 1969 championship, died yesterday at Bellevue Hospital in Manhattan. He was 58. Agee had a heart attack while leaving a Midtown office buildi
 Einar Gustafson, who plucked heartstrings as a 12-year-old cancer patient identified as Jimmy on a national radio program and then vanished for a half-century, only to reappear as a champion of what had become the Jimmy Fund, died of a stroke Sunday at a hospital in Caribou, Me. He was 65. 
 Joe Schaefer, a hockey statistician and amateur goalie who lived out the fantasy of countless fans when he was twice summoned during games at Madison Square Garden in the early 1960's as an emergency replacement when the Rangers' regular goalie was hurt, died Dec. 27 in Ladson, S.C. He was 
 William A. Stern, a former executive director of the Workmen's Circle who worked for socialist and Jewish cultural causes for nearly seven decades, died Thursday at a hospice in Tamarac, Fla. He was 90 and lived in Coconut Creek, Fla. Mr. Stern was also a former president of the For
 Clayton W. Fritchey, a syndicated columnist who also had a long career in public service at the White House, the Pentagon and the United Nations, died on Tuesday at Sibley Hospital here. He was 96. Mr. Fritchey was admitted to the hospital after a fall in his home on Saturday.      
 Frederick B. Adams Jr., a renowned bibliophile and the director of the Morgan Library in Manhattan for more than two decades, died on Jan. 7 at his home in Chisseaux, France. He was 90 and also had a home in Paris. In 1948, Mr. Adams succeeded Belle da Costa Greene as director of th
 Sol Libsohn, an early documentary photographer whose images of ordinary Americans appeared in many national publications, died on Sunday in Princeton, N.J. He was 86. A New Yorker by birth, Mr. Libsohn taught himself how to take pictures after a neighbor gave him a Kodak Brownie. Af
 Alfred A. Allegretti, who transformed his father's one-truck oil dealership beside the Gowanus Canal into one of the largest heating oil companies in the New York metropolitan area, died Jan. 13 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 65 and lived in the Bay Ridge nei
 Charles Mérieux, a virologist whose visionary understanding of mass vaccine cultivation and disease-fighting logistics turned a relatively modest family microbiology laboratory into an international engine for public health, died Saturday in Lyon, France, his hometown. He was 94. A
 Robert Warren Morse, scientist emeritus at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, who helped build the Polaris missile submarine as well as Case Western Reserve University, died on Friday at a nursing home in Falmouth, Mass. He was 79 and lived in North Falmouth. The cause was em
 Al McGuire, a New York original whose 20 years as a college head coach and 23 years as a brash and feisty television analyst landed him in the Basketball Hall of Fame, died yesterday in Milwaukee. He was 72. McGuire had suffered from leukemia, said a longtime friend, Norman Ochs, an
 Lloyd M. Schwan Jr., an American furniture and interior designer who brought an artist's eye for bold color and form and a lively wit to the craft of design in the 1980's and 90's, died on Jan. 19 at his home in Kutztown, Pa. He was 45. He committed suicide, his family said.        
 Prof. Oliver Robert Gurney, an Oxford classicist and a leading scholar of the Hittites, whose ancient civilization he began to study when most of it seemed lost to history, died in Oxford on Jan. 11. He was 86. The Hittites flourished about 1600 to 1200 B.C., in an empire that stret
 More than 2,000 people paid tribute yesterday to former Mayor John V. Lindsay under the soaring ceiling of the Cathedral of St. John the Divine, the place he himself had chosen to be remembered in by a city that he for a time inspired, angered and defined. A pantheon of the city's p
 Don Richard Eckelberry, a prolific illustrator who was one of the country's foremost bird painters, died Jan. 14 in Bay Shore, N.Y. He was 79 and lived in Babylon, N.Y. He died of respiratory failure after surgery, said his wife, Virginia. Al Gilbert, past president of the S
 Edward Dimock, an influential scholar of Indian studies and an emeritus professor at the University of Chicago, died Jan. 11 at his home in Centerville, Mass. He was 71. The cause was cancer, said Jennifer Leovy, a spokeswoman for the university. ''Edward Dimock almost singl
 Ernst Bulova, who created a freewheeling, freethinking summer camp in Connecticut that attracted thousands of teenagers, many from left-leaning New York City backgrounds, died on Jan. 11 at his home in New Milford, Conn., on the camp grounds. He was 98. The camp's philosophy followe
 Frank E. Toscani, who as the American military governor of a small Sicilian town during World War II replaced a cherished 700-year-old bell that Mussolini had had melted for munitions, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Nyack, N.Y. He was 89 and lived in Pearl River, N.Y. The town, 
 Yozo Hamaguchi, a Japanese-born artist known for his work in mezzotint engraving, a technique he was introduced to by the poet E. E. Cummings, died in Tokyo on Dec. 25. He was 91. Mr. Hamaguchi trained as an artist in Japan and at 21 moved to Paris, where he mingled with the interna
 David Samuel Liederman, who spoke for children and families as the head of major umbrella groups for child welfare organizations, died Jan. 12 at his home on the East Side of Manhattan. He was 65. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said the Council on Accreditation for Children and Fa
 George Wesley Santos, a pioneer in the development of bone marrow transplants, died Jan. 21 at a hospital in Arlington, Tex. A former resident of Phoenix, Md., he was 72 and lived on Hilton Head Island, S.C., in retirement. The cause was pneumonia, suffered while he was undergoing t
 John Francis Vorisek, who had a long career in movie production in New York, died on Jan. 8 at his home in Matawan, N.J. He was 75. Mr. Vorisek was a founding partner and president of Trans/Audio Inc., a postproduction sound studio in Manhattan. He and his partners started the compa
 Leo Marks, who played a major role in Britain's sabotage operations against Nazi Germany in World War II as the chief designer of codes used by agents behind enemy lines, died Jan. 15. He was 80. In July 1940, Churchill created the Special Operations Executive and ordered it to ''se
 Rino M. Monti, the construction manager of the World Trade Center and later the director of engineering and chief engineer of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, died on Jan. 14 in Valhalla, N.Y. He was 71 and lived in Scarsdale, N.Y. He died of a series of serious illnes
 Sandy Baron, the stand-up comic, actor and songwriter perhaps best known in recent years for his recurring role on ''Seinfeld'' as Jack Klompus, the nemesis of Seinfeld's father, Morty, died on Jan. 21 at a nursing home in Los Angeles. Mr. Baron, who lived in the Van Nuys section of the cit
 Curt Blefary, the Baltimore Oriole outfielder who was the American League's rookie of the year in 1965, two years after the Yankees allowed him to be claimed from their farm system, died Sunday at his home in Pompano Beach, Fla. He was 57. The cause was pancreatitis, his family said
 Douglas Howcroft Mazonowicz, a graphic artist who helped preserve some of the world's most famous prehistoric cave paintings by recreating them on silk, died on Sunday in Riverdale, the Bronx. He was 80. Born in Swindon, in Wiltshire, England, Mr. Mazonowicz spent 15 years in France
 John Biggers, a painter, printmaker and sculptor known for his meticulous depictions of African and African-American life, died on Thursday at his home in Houston. He was 76. The cause was a heart attack, said Carl Ards, Mr. Biggers's brother-in-law. Mr. Biggers's art, often
 Richard S. MacNeish, a tireless archaeologist renowned for his investigations into the origins of corn and rice and for his provocative conclusions, died on Jan. 16 in Belize. He was 82 and lived in Andover, Mass., during the brief periods when he was not on an expedition. He died o
 Alexander Spears III, who joined other top tobacco executives in testifying before Congress in 1994 that they did not believe nicotine was addictive or caused disease, died on Monday of lung cancer at Duke Medical Center in Durham, N.C. He was 68. His wife, Shirley Pierce Spears of 
 Charles F. Kiley Sr., a former editor in chief of The New York Law Journal, died on Saturday at his home in Westfield, N.J. He was 87. Mr. Kiley oversaw The Law Journal's news coverage from 1967 until he retired in 1989. He was born in Jersey City. Early in his career, he sp
 Jean-Pierre Aumont, a popular French actor whose 65-year career included romantic roles in Hollywood, dramatic parts on Broadway and an intense life onstage and on screen in France, died on Tuesday at his home in Saint-Tropez. He was 90. Born in Paris on Jan. 5, 1911, as Jean-Pierre
 Lou Levy, a West Coast jazz pianist best known as an accompanist to leading jazz singers, died on Jan. 23 at the home of a friend, the musician Max Bennett, in Dana Point, Calif. He was 72 and lived in North Hollywood. The cause was a heart attack, said Kathy Levy, his former wife. 
