 Professor Ezra Fleischer, an Israeli poet and scholar whose work on a long-forgotten trove of ancient Jewish manuscripts helped shed new light on the development of the early synagogue and Jewish prayer, died last Tuesday in Jerusalem. He was 78. His death was confirmed by Hebrew Un
 Nathan Brodsky, a Manhattan real estate developer who got his start by rehabilitating small, old buildings in the West Village and later dotted the skyline with sleek residential towers, died Thursday in Manhattan. He was 89. The death was announced by Mr. Brodsky's son and business
 Anthony Cave Brown, a British journalist who wrote books about espionage, including a study of the role of intelligence in the invasion of Europe in World War II, died on July 14 in Warrenton, Va. He was 77. The cause was complications of pneumonia, Edward Russell, his former brothe
 Dr. Jonathan R. Spicehandler, a specialist in infectious diseases who led research and development for the drug maker Schering-Plough, died Sunday at his home in Short Hills, N.J. He was 57. Dr. Robert J. Spiegel, chief medical officer for Schering-Plough, said the cause of death wa
 Frederick G. Kilgour, a distinguished librarian who nearly 40 years ago transformed a consortium of Ohio libraries into what is now the largest library cooperative in the world, making the catalogs of thousands of libraries around the globe instantly accessible to far-flung patrons, died on
 Harold Scott, an actor, producer and director and the first black artistic director of a major American regional theater, died at his home in Newark on July 16. He was 70. He died of natural causes, said Doug Hosney, the production manager at the Paper Mill Playhouse in Milburn, N.J
 Besby Frank Holmes, a World War II ace who took his fighter plane fruitlessly to the air when the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor but was finally able to pursue vengeance as part of the 1943 mission that brought the death of Adm. Isoroku Yamamoto, the architect of the attack, died July 23 in G
 Dr. Vincent P. Dole, who along with a young researcher who later became his wife did the studies proving that the synthetic drug methadone blocks the cravings of heroin addicts, died Tuesday in Manhattan. He was 93. The death was announced by Rockefeller University in Manhattan, whe
 Dr. James H. Jandl, a Harvard hematologist who helped explain the actions of red blood cells and later wrote an authoritative reference work on blood and blood disorders, died on July 17 in Cambridge, Mass. He was 80. His death was confirmed by his family. Dr. Jandl (pronoun
 Arthur Lee, the leader of Love, a pioneering 1960's psychedelic rock band, died on Thursday in Memphis. He was 61. The cause was complications of leukemia, said Mark Linn, his manager. With eccentric songs that joined the jangly guitars of folk-rock with urgent, angry rhythm
 Elden Auker, a leading pitcher in the 1930's and early 40's whose submarine-style delivery helped the Detroit Tigers capture two American League pennants and a World Series championship, died yesterday morning in Vero Beach, Fla. He was 95. He died of congestive heart failure, said his son,
 Harold Ronk, the stentorian-voiced ringmaster who sang ''Welcome to the Circus!'' at the start of thousands of Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey performances for 30 years, died on Wednesday in Canton, Ohio. Mr. Ronk, the circus's first singing ringmaster, was 85. His death was a
 Jason Rhoades, the Los Angeles sculptor who garnered international renown for his audacious, wildly diversified, morally provocative installations, died suddenly on Tuesday after being taken ill at his home. He was 41. The cause was heart failure, said Mr. Rhoades's New York galleri
 Murray Bookchin, a writer, teacher and activist who began his political odyssey as a Communist, became an anarchist and then metamorphosed into an influential theorist on ecology, died July 30 at his home in Burlington, Vt. He was 85. The cause was complications of a malfunctioning 
 Richard L. Fisher, a real estate developer who supported philanthropic causes ranging from law enforcement to animal welfare to helping the families of American soldiers, died on Saturday in Manhattan, a family spokesman said. He was 65 and lived in Greenwich Village. The cause of d
 David Levy, a leader of the reform wing of the New York Democratic Party who ran unsuccessfully in 1962 against the party's Bronx boss, Representative Charles A. Buckley, died on Wednesday at his home in Pompton Lakes, N.J. He was 79. The cause was a stroke, his son Paul said.      
 Dr. James F. X. O'Rourke, an eye surgeon who, never content with medicine alone, followed an unlikely career path that took him from singing and playing football to leading the city of Yonkers and the Westchester County Republican Party, died on Friday in the Bronx. He was 86 and lived in S
 John L. Weinberg, a senior investment banker who ran Goldman Sachs from 1976 to 1990 and who was part of a family dynasty that has been at the firm since 1907, died Monday in Greenwich, Conn. He was 81. The cause was complications from a fall two weeks ago, said Peter Rose, a spokes
 Kevin Terpstra, a partner in the trend-setting Greenwich Village home design store Mxyplyzyk, died last Wednesday at his home in New Milford, Conn. He was 48. The cause was liver failure, said Kevin Brynan, his business partner. Over the last 14 years, Mxyplyzyk has become a
 Richard T. Greene Sr., who for 30 years was the president and a director of the Carver Federal Savings Bank, which he built into the country's largest African-American financial institution, died at his home in Brooklyn last Thursday. He was 93. The cause was heart failure, his daug
 James A. Van Allen, the physicist who made the first major scientific discovery of the early space age, the Earth-circling radiation belts that bear his name, and sent spacecraft instruments to observe the outer reaches of the solar system, died yesterday in Iowa City. He was 91. Th
 James Harvey Young, a social historian of American medicine who wrote engaging studies of fraud, dubious cures and health quackery and later chronicled the birth of federal food regulation, died July 29 in Atlanta. He was 90. The cause was complications of a stroke, his family said.
 Richard Mock, a painter and sculptor whose interest in politics led to a second career as an editorial cartoonist, died on July 28 in Brooklyn, where he lived. He was 61. His death followed a long illness, said his companion, Roberta Waddell, curator of prints at the New York Public
 Robert L. McCullough, who changed the civil rights movement by choosing to work on a roadside chain gang rather than pay a $100 fine after his arrest in 1961 for asking to be served at a whites-only lunch counter in South Carolina, died Monday in Rock Hill, S.C. He was 64. Samuel Re
 Alvin Cooperman, whose entertainment achievements included holding high posts at the Shubert Organization, at Madison Square Garden and at NBC television as well as producing on his own, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 83. The cause was complications of a severe case of shingles
 Duke Jordan, a pianist whose work with the saxophonist Charlie Parker endures in the jazz canon, died on Tuesday in Valby, Denmark, a suburb of Copenhagen. He was 84, and he had lived in self-imposed exile from the United States since 1978, continuing to perform in the musical tradition he 
 Joel W. Hedgpeth, a marine biologist and an environmental advocate who became an early voice for the rich diversity of plants and animals living along California's coastline, died on July 28 in Hillsboro, Ore. He was 94. His death was confirmed by his family. Dr. Hedgpeth st
 Mike Douglas, the genial television host whose afternoon talk show was a beacon of popular culture in the 1960's and 70's, died yesterday in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. His death came on his birthday, a generation after his irony-free broadcast style began to pass from the screen. He was 81.  
 Rufus Harley, who was billed as ''the world's first jazz bagpiper'' and emitted his haunting sounds alongside some of the greats of jazz, died on Aug. 1 in Philadelphia, his hometown. He was 70. The cause was prostate cancer, his son Messiah Patton Harley said. Although Mr. 
 Ken Richmond, the 6-foot-5, ripple-armed wrestler who for decades was seen striking the gong that heralded the opening credits for dozens of films produced by the J. Arthur Rank Studio in England, died on Aug. 3 at his home in Christchurch, on England's south coast. He was 80. The c
 Moacir Santos, a Brazilian jazz composer whose six decades of music were rediscovered and celebrated in Brazil and the United States only in the last five years, died on Sunday in Pasadena, Calif. He was 80. The cause was complications of a stroke, said Richard Zirinsky of Adventure
 William Edman Massee, one of the first American wine writers in the post-World War II era, died on Aug. 5 at his home in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 87. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his son, John. Mr. Massee was a prolific writer, and much of his work in the 1950's, 60's 
 Joel W. Harnett, a businessman and civic watchdog who finished last in the Democratic primary for mayor of New York City in 1977, but fueled debate by helping to force the release of a federal investigative report on questionable financial manipulations by city leaders, died on Aug. 11 at h
 John L. Bull, a largely self-taught ornithologist and educator whose definitive guidebooks to New York State birds led a generation of birders into the woods, died on Friday in Queens. He was 92. Mr. Bull's death was confirmed by his family. A research assistant at the Ameri
 Julio Galán, a provocative Neo-Expressionist Mexican painter, died on Aug. 4 en route back to his home in Monterrey, Mexico. He was 46. Mr. Galán suffered a brain hemorrhage while staying in Zacatecas, in central Mexico, and died on the plane that was taking him back to Monterrey,
 Victor del Corral, a Cuban émigré whose Manhattan restaurant, Victor's Cafe, was a celebrated gathering place during its heyday in the 1960's and 70's, died on Friday in Miami. He was 84. Mr. del Corral's family announced the death. No cause was given. Victor's Cafe, which
 Joseph F. Carlino, a leading Long Island Republican for 20 years and the speaker of the New York State Assembly from 1959 to 1964, died on Sunday at his home in Syosset, N.Y. He was 89 and had suffered a stroke eight years ago. His death was confirmed by Alphonse M. D'Amato, the for
 Leonard H. Marks, a communications lawyer who helped Lyndon B. Johnson and his wife acquire the television stations that built their fortune and who later served as director of the United States Information Agency in the Johnson administration, died Friday in Washington. He was 90. 
 Lawrence Sacharow, an Obie Award-winning director and a pioneer of biographical theater, died on Monday in Manhattan. He was 68. The cause was leukemia, said his daughter Anya Sacharow. From the early 1960's, Mr. Sacharow was an active director of Off and Off Off Broadway pr
 Gen. Alfredo Stroessner, the former president of Paraguay whose harsh and capricious 35-year hold on power made him South America's most enduring dictator during the cold war and gave him the aura of a character out of a Gabriel García Márquez novel, died yesterday. He was 93. The
 James L. Wattenbarger, a former University of Florida education professor often called the father of the state's community college system, died Monday while visiting friends in the Atlanta area. He was 84 and lived in Gainesville. The cause was a heart attack, his family said.      
 Miguel (Angá) Díaz, the virtuosic Cuban conga player who became one of the world's best-known percussionists, died on Aug. 9 at his home in Sant Sadurní d'Anoia, a small town outside of Barcelona, Spain. He was 45. The cause was a heart attack, according to Blake Zidell, a public
 Milton Kaye, a pianist and arranger who moved with ease from accompanying Heifetz to writing theme music for the TV quiz show ''Concentration,'' from playing in Toscanini's orchestra to playing the organ on ''The Rootie Kazootie Show,'' died on Monday in Manhattan. He was 97. Before
 Dr. Paul B. Beeson, an expert in infectious diseases whose research contributed to novel insights into the causes of high and persistent fevers and who became an influential medical editor and administrator at Yale and Oxford, died Monday in Exeter, N.H. He was 97. Dr. Beeson's deat
 Rudi Stern, a multimedia artist who spent decades bending light to his will in the service of both art and commerce -- from the psychedelic shows he created for Timothy Leary to the vibrant neon in Studio 54 -- died on Tuesday in Cadiz, Spain. He was 69 and had made his home in Cadiz in rec
 John Hutton, an influential home furnishings designer whose work has been widely imitated by mass-market manufacturers in the United States and Europe, died Thursday in Manhattan. He was 59 and had homes in West Islip, N.Y., and Nancy, France. His wife, Brenda, said the cause was pr
 Shamsur Rahman, a prominent Bangladeshi poet, journalist and human rights advocate who in 1999 survived an attempt on his life by an Islamic fundamentalist group, died in Dhaka, Bangladesh, on Thursday. He was in his late 70's. The cause was heart and kidney failure, his family told
 Len Evans, who as a writer, vineyard owner, restaurateur and promoter was for almost half a century Australia's wine ambassador to the world, died Thursday in Newcastle, in New South Wales, Australia. He was 75 and lived in Pokolbin, in the Hunter Valley, once considered Australia's best wi
 Alexander Cushing, who persuaded Olympic leaders to hold the 1960 Winter Games at his new resort in Squaw Valley, Calif., which at the time of his application had a single chairlift and a 50-room lodge, died Sunday in Newport, R.I. He was 92. The cause was pneumonia, his family said
 Jamie Astaphan, the physician who supplied the Canadian sprinter Ben Johnson with banned drugs before he won a gold medal in the 1988 Seoul Olympics, died Friday on his native Caribbean island of St. Kitts. He was 60. The cause was a heart attack, Meredith Charles, the St. Kitts pol
 Joe Rosenthal, the Associated Press photographer who captured the enduring image of the American fighting man in World War II with his depiction of five Marines and a Navy corpsman raising a huge American flag over the Japanese island of Iwo Jima, died Sunday in Novato, Calif. He was 94.   
 Marvin Barrett, an educator and authority on broadcast journalism whose best-known books describe his struggles with serious illness, and how those struggles became occasions for spiritual discovery, died Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 86. The cause was congestive heart f
 Robert K. Hoffman, a founder of National Lampoon magazine who went on to become a leading Dallas business owner and philanthropist and a major collector of contemporary art, died on Sunday in Dallas. He was 59. The cause was leukemia, his family said. As an undergraduate at 
 Umberto Baldini, the director of the conservation studios at the Uffizi Gallery who helped save and restore hundreds of artworks damaged by the famous Arno River flood of 1966, died at his home near Florence on Wednesday. He was 84. His funeral took place Aug. 17 at the church of Sa
 Yizhar Smilansky, a revered Israeli writer known as S. Yizhar, best known for his stories of the 1948 war of independence, died Monday of heart failure. He was 89. Mr. Smilansky was given his pen name in 1938 and was considered an innovator in modern Hebrew literature, combining dif
 Jacob Mincer, a pioneer in labor economics who was the first to quantify the payoff from education and training, died Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 84. The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, his wife, Dr. Flora Kaplan Mincer, said. Mr. Mincer had spent
 William C. Norris, an electrical engineer who founded Control Data, the company that created the first supercomputers, died on Monday in Bloomington, Minn. He was 95. His death followed a long battle with Parkinson's disease, a son, Roger, said. After World War II, Mr. Norri
 Ed Thrasher, an art director and photographer who designed defining album covers for Jimi Hendrix, Frank Sinatra and the Beach Boys, and helped shape the enduring image of rock and pop in the 1960's and 70's, died on Aug. 5 at his home in Big Bear Lake, Calif. He was 74. The cause w
 Jeffrey Tennyson, an artist whose obsession with hamburgers -- equal parts gastronomic, folkloric and satiric -- resulted in a book on burger history and a hoard of thousands of burger knickknacks, died Aug. 18 at his home in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 54. The cause was complicatio
 Yen Do, the founder of the largest-circulation Vietnamese-language daily newspaper in the United States and a guiding force in the assimilation of refugees after the Vietnam War, died on Aug. 17 in the community known as Little Saigon in Westminster, Calif., about 30 miles south of Los Ange
 Maynard Ferguson, whose soaring trumpeting reached the instrument's highest ranges and propelled a musical career of more than 60 years, died Wednesday in Ventura, Calif. He was 78. The cause was kidney and liver failure, said his personal manager, Steve Schankman. Mr. Fergu
 Roger Donoghue, a prizefighter who could have been a contender until his blows killed an opponent and something inside himself (but far from everything), then moved on to teach Marlon Brando to box for the movie ''On the Waterfront,'' died on Sunday in Greenport, N.Y. He was 75. The
 Sig Shore, an independent producer whose low-budget 1972 film ''Superfly'' was among the first of the so-called blaxploitation movies of the 1970's and gave its name to the flamboyant style that was a hallmark of the genre, died on Aug. 17 in Stamford, Conn. He was 87. The cause was
 Vernon M. Ingram, a molecular biologist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who discovered that a single genetic mutation caused the blood disease sickle cell anemia, died on Aug. 17 in Boston. He was 82. The cause was injuries stemming from a fall, according to M.I.T.     
 John Wilson, an assistant to the science editor of The New York Times and a founding member of the National Lesbian and Gay Journalists Association, collapsed and died early yesterday at his apartment in Manhattan. He was 56. His partner, Richard Poirier, said it appeared that Mr. W
 James W. Smith Jr., a noted surgeon who recreated a forbidden childhood paradise by amassing one of the finest collections of antique penny arcade games in the country, died on Aug. 15 in Greenwich, Conn. He was 79 and had for many years made his home in Greenwich, less than a mile down the
 Ralph Schoenstein, a humorist who was a commentator on National Public Radio's ''All Things Considered,'' a prolific contributor to magazines and newspapers, the author of 18 books, and a ghostwriter whose works included Bill Cosby's ''Fatherhood,'' died on Thursday in Philadelphia. He was 
 Léopold Simoneau, the Canadian lyric tenor who dominated international Mozart performance in the 1950's, died on Thursday night in Victoria, British Columbia. He was 90 and lived in Victoria. The cause was complications of diabetes, said Renée Maheu, the author of a joint biograph
 Melvin Schwartz, who shared the 1988 Nobel Prize in Physics for generating a beam of wispy particles known as neutrinos, died Monday at a nursing home in Twin Falls, Idaho. He was 73 and lived in Ketchum, Idaho. The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease and hepatitis C, sai
 Rainer Barzel, a power in postwar West German politics and a stalwart of the center-right Christian Democratic party who nearly brought down Chancellor Willy Brandt, lost a bid to succeed him and years later fell from high office in what turned out to be an undeserved scandal, died in Munic
 William Denis Curtin, who joined The New York Times in 1962 while still in high school and worked there as a copy editor for most of four decades, died on Monday at his home in Breezy Point, Queens. He was 60. The cause was cardiac arrest, his wife, Eileen, said. Mr. Curtin 
 Gerald Green, a best-selling author and screenwriter whose most famous novel, ''The Last Angry Man,'' was the basis for the 1959 film starring Paul Muni as an altruistic doctor in a downtrodden Brooklyn neighborhood, died on Tuesday in Norwalk, Conn. He was 84 and lived in New Canaan, Conn.
 Glenn Ford, a laconic, soft-spoken actor with an easy smile who played leading roles in many westerns, melodramas and romantic films from the early 1940's through the 60's, died yesterday at his Beverly Hills home. He was 90. Paramedics called to the home shortly before 4 p.m. found
 Naguib Mahfouz, the Egyptian novelist, playwright and screenwriter who won the 1988 Nobel Prize in Literature and was widely regarded as the Arab world's foremost novelist, died yesterday in Cairo. He was 94. Mr. Mahfouz had been hospitalized and in declining health since suffering 
 Werner Scharff, the designer of the oh-so-comfortable Lanz flannel granny nightgown, died on Aug. 17 at his home in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 90. The cause was Parkinson's disease, his son Christopher Scharff said. The Lanz of Salzburg line has provided a snuggly cover-up 
 William F. Quinn, the first elected governor of Hawaii, died on Monday in Honolulu. He was 87. The death was confirmed by Russell Pang, a spokesman for the current governor, Linda Lingle. A proponent of land reform and development, Mr. Quinn was elected on July 28, 1959, aft
