 George Hall, a character actor who performed for more than six decades on Broadway and stages elsewhere, on television and in movies, died on Oct. 21 in Hawthorne, N.Y. He was 85 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications after a stroke, said Christopher Alden, a friend.   
 Noel Regney, who helped write the beloved Christmas song ''Do You Hear What I Hear?'' died last Sunday in Brewster, N.Y. He was 80. He wrote the seasonal standard with Gloria Shayne, then his wife, in 1962. It was recorded by Bing Crosby and Perry Como, among others, in more than 12
 Philip B. Meggs, a scholar of graphic and advertising design who wrote the first full history of the field, from the time of Gutenberg to the postmodern era, died on Nov. 24 in Richmond, Va. He was 60. The cause was leukemia, said his wife, Libby Phillips Meggs. Mr. Meggs, w
 Amilcar de Castro, a sculptor who captured Brazil's tempestuous contradictions in geometric parables of massive iron sheets, died on Nov. 22 in Belo Horizonte, Brazil. He was 82. Mr. Castro, a towering figure in Brazil's art scene, gained prominence in the postwar period when Brazil
 Charles Dupuis, a pioneering Belgian publisher of French-language comics best known in the United States for introducing the blue-hued, hedonistic animated characters called Smurfs, died on Nov. 14 in Brussels. He was 84. An influential editor, he published other popular characters,
 Capt. Edward L. Beach, the skipper of the nuclear-powered submarine Triton when it made history's first round-the-world undersea voyage in 1960 and the author of the best-selling war novel ''Run Silent, Run Deep,'' died yesterday at his home in Washington. He was 84. The cause was c
 Ernest S. Leiser, a television news reporter and producer for CBS who won acclaim for his coverage of Eastern Europe during the cold war and helped direct the network's transition to television from radio, died on Tuesday at his home in South Nyack, N.Y. He was 81. The cause was con
 Dave McNally, a star pitcher who took part in the 1975 labor grievance that created free agency in major league baseball, died Sunday at his home in Billings, Mont. He was 60. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. McNally, a left-hander, won at least 20 games for the B
 Edward Burling Jr., a retired senior partner of one of the largest law firms in Washington and an active Republican in his party's moderate wing, died on Nov. 19 at his home in Washington. He was 94. Mr. Burling was the son of Edward Burnham Burling, who with J. Harry Covington in 1
 Harold Howe II, who as the chief federal educator in the Johnson administration led the growing federal involvement in public schools, died last Saturday at a retirement home in Hanover, N.H. He was 84 and most recently lived in Concord, Mass. Mr. Howe was in the forefront of effort
 Henry Chauncey, founder of the Educational Testing Service who shaped the nation's standardized testing practices and through them, a new meritocracy, died yesterday at his home in Shelburne, Vt. He was 97. With the backing of his patron, James Bryant Conant, the president of Harvar
 John Luther McLucas, an electronics engineer in aviation and space technology who led the Air Force, the Federal Aviation Administration and several companies, died on Sunday in Alexandria, Va. He was 82. He had prolonged heart problems, Bill Brobst, a friend and colleague, told The
 Ivan Illich, a onetime Roman Catholic priest who, through a steady flow of books and articles preached counterintuitive sociology to a disquieted baby-boom generation, died on Monday at his home in Bremen, Germany. He was 76. Celia Samerski, a student of his at the University of Bre
 Achille Castiglioni, the Italian architect and designer whose infusions of wit into domestic objects like lamps and stools helped establish Italy as a leader in sophisticated modern design after World War II, died on Monday in Milan at age 84. He is survived by his wife, Irma, two d
 Boris Schapiro, a top British bridge player who was convicted of cheating in an international champi- onship match by the World Bridge Federation but later inconclusively exonerated by an independent British inquiry, died at his home in Buckinghamshire last Sunday. He was 93. At the
 Patrick J. Cunningham, the last of a line of Irish clubhouse politicians to lead the Bronx Democratic Party, until he faced several state and federal investigations, died on Tuesday at St. Vincent's Manhattan Hospital. He was 74 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications of
 Bob Berg, the tenor saxophonist, was killed in a traffic accident yesterday in East Hampton, N.Y., where he lived. He was 51, and had played with Miles Davis, Horace Silver and Chick Corea, among others. His solo albums included ''Enter the Spirit'' and ''Back Roads,'' which was nom
 Dr. Emanuel Martin Papper, the founding chairman of the department of anesthesiology at Columbia University, died on Tuesday in Miami. He was 87 and had lived in Miami since moving from Riverdale, N.Y., in 1969. The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, his family said. The anest
 Mal Waldron, Billie Holiday's last accompanist and the composer of the jazz classic ''Soul Eyes,'' died on Monday in Brussels, where he had lived for about a decade. He was 77. The cause was cancer, his European management company said. Mr. Waldron's long career as a pianist
 U Ne Win, the longtime Burmese strongman who seized control of his country in a military coup in 1962 and set up an authoritarian government that transformed his homeland, once one of the most prosperous parts of the British Empire, into one of the world's poorest nations, died yesterday. H
 Roone Arledge, the television industry executive and producer whose creativity, leadership and technical innovations revolutionized the presentation of both news and sports, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 71. The cause was complications from cancer, said ABC, his professional h
 Bill Sparks, the last survivor of the 10 British marines celebrated as the Cockleshell Heroes for their canoe-borne raid on German shipping in occupied France in World War II, died last Saturday in Alfriston, England. He was 80. On the evening of Dec. 7, 1942, five two-man teams of 
 Bob Berg, a tenor saxophonist who brought the speed and intensity of middle-period John Coltrane into a jazz-fusion context, died on Thursday in an automobile accident in Amagansett, N.Y., said Christine Martin, his friend and former manager. He was 51. Mr. Berg and his wife, Arja, 
 Edgar J. Scherick, a longtime film and television producer and executive, whose credits ranged from ''ABC's Wide World of Sports'' to films like ''The Stepford Wives'' and ''Rambling Rose'' and the recent HBO mini-series ''Path to War,'' died on Tuesday in Los Angeles. He was 78. Th
 Philip F. Berrigan, the former Roman Catholic priest who led the draft board raids that galvanized opposition to the Vietnam War in the late 1960's, died last night in Baltimore after a lifetime of battling ''the American Empire,'' as he called it, over the morality of its military and soci
 Pierre Peugeot, who made the automaker that bears his family name into a French industrial success story, died on Sunday in Paris. He was 70 years old. The company said that Mr. Peugeot had been ill for some time but could not provide additional details about the cause of death.    
 William Henson, an animator who helped bring the bulbous-nosed, dim-witted Bullwinkle the Moose to life, died earlier this week after being struck by a pickup truck on Monday in suburban Dallas. He was 78. A Dallas medical examiner announced the death on Thursday. Mr. Henson
 Philip F. Berrigan, the former Roman Catholic priest who led the draft board raids that galvanized opposition to the Vietnam War in the late 1960's, died on Friday in Baltimore after a lifetime of battling ''the American Empire,'' as he called it, over the morality of its military and socia
 David E. Davis, a sculptor and advocate of the visual arts who created numerous large-scale public works in Cleveland and elsewhere, died Nov. 13 in Cleveland. He was 82. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Davis was born in Romania in 1920 and immigrated to Ohio in 1
 Jimmy Caras, who began playing pool at age 5 and went on to win four world championships and the United States Open, died Tuesday in Jacksonville, Fla. He was 93. In a career that spanned six decades, Caras vied for supremacy in pocket billiards, as pool is formally known, with figu
 John V. Dennis, a naturalist who wrote an influential book on feeding birds, died on Dec. 1 at his home in Princess Anne, Md. He was 86. His book ''A Complete Guide to Bird Feeding'' was published in 1975 and republished in revised and updated form in 1994. It has been credited with
 Arvell Shaw, a swinging bassist whose thumping, straight-ahead style gave musical backbone to Louis Armstrong's genius for a quarter-century, died on Thursday at his home in Roosevelt, N.Y. He was 79. The apparent cause was a heart attack, said Cynthia Moton, his companion. 
 Saburo Ienaga, the renegade Japanese historian who for more than 30 years fought his government's efforts to suppress details of Japan's wartime atrocities from school history books, with only partial success, died on Dec. 1 in Tokyo. He was 89. Dr. Ienaga's most important victory o
 By appointing William H. Donaldson to succeed the traumatized Harvey L. Pitt as chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, President Bush has opted for a time-tested hand with some of the tightest Bush family links that Wall Street has to offer. And Wall Street is applauding the mo
 John Richard Dellenback, a four-term Oregon congressman, Peace Corps director and leader in Christian college education, died on Saturday at a hospital in Medford, Ore. He was 84 and lived in Medford. The cause was viral pneumonia, his family said. A prominent Rockefeller Re
 To Huu, who was often called the poet laureate of the Communists' victories over the French and the Americans in Vietnam and who went on to high posts in the country's postwar government, died in Hanoi on Monday. He was 82. His death was reported yesterday by Agence France-Presse.  
 Allan Frumkin, a distinguished dealer in European and American modern art who had galleries in New York and Chicago for more than 40 years, died Monday at a Manhattan hospital. He was 75. The cause was complications from Crohn's disease, his family said. A wiry man and a cig
 Bill Miller, a nightclub owner who ran Bill Miller's Riviera in Fort Lee, N.J., before moving to Las Vegas and taking many headline acts with him, died on Monday in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 98 and lived in Palm Springs. After buying the nightclub in 1945, Mr. Miller booked Tony M
 J. A. Keller, who as head of the Mergenthaler Linotype Company helped it diversify as old hot-type printing technologies were supplanted, died on Tuesday at a hospice in Vero Beach, Fla., where he lived. He was 84. The cause was complications after a stroke, his family said.        
 Murray Pergament, who with his stepfather opened two paint-and-wallpaper stores in 1946 that grew into a chain of 40 home-supply stores in the New York City metropolitan area, died on Tuesday at a Brooklyn hospital. He was 76. The cause was complications of cancer, his son, Bruce, s
 William H. Gleysteen Jr., an expert on China who was United States ambassador to South Korea in a period of acute political turbulence there in the late 1970's, died on Dec. 6 in Washington. He was 76. The cause was acute leukemia, according to the Council on Foreign Relations, wher
 Bobby Joe Hill, who led Texas Western's all-black starting five to the 1966 National Collegiate Athletic Association men's basketball championship with its victory over Kentucky's all-white team, died last Sunday at a hospital in El Paso. He was 59. The cause was a heart attack, sai
 Orlando Villas-Boas, the last survivor of three pioneering brothers who were instrumental in exploring Brazil's vast interior in the 1940's and protecting the native Indians they found there, died today after a long illness. He was 88. Mr. Villas-Boas, who was born Jan. 12, 1914, in
 Dee Brown, whose Homeric vision of the American West, meticulous research and masterly storytelling produced the 1970 best seller ''Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee: An Indian History of the American West,'' died at his home in Little Rock, Ark., on Thursday. He was 94. Mr. Brown was a
 Dr. Robert C. Schlant, a leading medical educator who was director of cardiology at Emory University from 1962 to 1988, died on Thursday at his home in Atlanta. He was 73. The cause was cancer, his family said. Besides teaching, Dr. Schlant edited 19 medical books and was co
 Dr. Roland B. Scott, a pediatrician and allergy expert who gained international prominence as an authority on sickle cell disease and a champion in the fight against it, died on Tuesday at Washington Adventist Hospital. He was 93. Dr. Scott was a driving force behind the Sickle Cell
 Theodore G. Shackley, a legendary member of the C.I.A. who was known to colleagues as ''the Blond Ghost'' because of his light hair and mysterious ways, died on Monday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 75. He had been suffering from cancer, said his daughter, Suzanne Shackley.    
 Arthur Stark, who was appointed by Presidents Dwight D. Eisenhower, John F. Kennedy and Ronald Reagan to major labor arbitration panels, died on Dec. 3 at his home in Manhattan. He was 83. His family said he had a history of heart disease. He was named by President Eisenhowe
 It is not at all hard to see why Billy Pearson, the jockey, art expert, big-time television quiz show winner, bon vivant and gallery owner who died at 82 on Thanksgiving Day, attracted the friendship and admiration of people like the director John Huston, the singer Andy Williams, the actor
 Leonardo Mondadori, chairman of one of Italy's largest publishing houses, Arnoldo Mondadori Editore, died on Friday at his home in Milan. He was 56. The cause was cancer, said Piera Cusani, a spokeswoman for the publishing house. Mondadori publishes several Italian-language 
 Dr. Richard S. Lazarus, an influential psychologist who charted the terrain of human emotion, most notably how people cope with stress, died on Nov. 24 in Walnut Creek, Calif. He was 80. His death resulted from a fall, said officials at the University of California at Berkeley, wher
 Eli Ginzberg, an economist who taught at Columbia University for more than six decades, advised eight American presidents and led pioneering research efforts in employment and health care, died Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 91. Dr. Ginzberg first showed his bent for appl
 John Crosby, an impresario and occasional conductor who founded the Santa Fe Opera in 1957 and built it into one of the country's most important opera companies during his 44 seasons as its general director, died on Sunday at Eisenhower Memorial Hospital in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 76 ye
 Zal Yanovsky, whose distinctive guitar playing and ebullient personality helped make the Lovin' Spoonful one of the most popular rock groups of the late 1960's, died on Friday at his home outside Kingston, Ontario. He was 57. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. On
 Francisco Unanue Casal, one of two brothers who built their parents' trade in imported Spanish condiments and olive oil into today's Goya brand food empire, died on Friday in Santurce, P.R. He was 71 and lived in nearby Rio Piedras, P.R. The cause was a heart attack, according to th
 Sidney Glazier, the producer of the 1968 film comedy ''The Producers,'' died on Saturday in Bennington, Vt. He was 86. The movie, which earned an Oscar for Mel Brooks, its scriptwriter, tells the bizarre story of two crooked theatrical producers whose fraudulent moneymaking scheme r
 Charles E. Fraser, a developer who took Hilton Head Island -- a woody, sparsely populated barrier island off the South Carolina coast -- and turned it into a haven of expensive homes, golf courses and tennis courts, died in a boating accident on Sunday in the West Indies. He was 73.        
 Dick Stuart, an exuberant first baseman who hit baseballs huge distances but fielded so erratically that he earned the nickname Dr. Strangeglove, died Sunday at his home in Redwood City, Calif. He was 70. The cause was cancer, his family said. Stuart's strength and his weakn
 Ezra Solomon, an economist at Stanford University whose work helped shape modern theories of corporate finance, died on Dec. 9. He was 82. The cause was a heart attack, said the Stanford Graduate School of Business, which announced his death on Tuesday. Dr. Solomon's best-kn
 Frederick Knott, a notoriously unprolific playwright who scored big when he did write -- with his 1952 Broadway hit ''Dial M for Murder'' and later with the 1966 thriller ''Wait Until Dark'' -- died on Tuesday in his Manhattan apartment. He was 86. ''He hated writing,'' his wife, An
 Wayne Owens, a former congressman from Utah who promoted peace in the Mideast, was found dead on Wednesday in Tel Aviv, the State Department said. He was 65 and lived in Salt Lake City. He apparently had a heart attack, a spokeswoman for the department, Anne Marks, said. Mr.
 John A. Davis Sr., a veteran of landmark civil rights confrontations since the 1930's and a former chairman of the department of political science at City College of New York, died on Monday in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 90 and formerly lived in Washington and New Rochelle, N.Y. A nat
 Dr. Saul Amarel, who helped develop the field of artificial intelligence and founded the computer science department at Rutgers University, died on Wednesday in Princeton, N.J., where he lived. He was 74. The cause was complications of cancer, according to Rutgers. At Rutger
 Warwick Charlton, a dreamer and schemer who got the idea that the world needed an exact replica of the Mayflower and made it happen, died on Dec. 10 in Bournemouth, England. He was 84. The cause was a heart attack, his son Randal said. He lived in a modest castle in Ringwood, Hampsh
 William Glover, a longtime drama critic for The Associated Press, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 91. Beginning in 1960, Mr. Glover reviewed theater for the Associated Press for 18 years, covering Broadway, Off Broadway and theater in 28 states and 20 countries. When
 Ray Wietecha, the Pro Bowl center who anchored the Giants' superb offensive line during their glory years of the 1950's and early 60's and never missed a game in his 10 pro seasons, died Dec. 14 in Phoenix. He was 74. The cause was an aneurysm, the Giants said. Playing for t
 Hank Luisetti, who changed the game of basketball with his running one-handed shots while playing for Stanford in the 1930's, died last Tuesday in San Mateo, Calif. He was 86. On the night of Dec. 30, 1936, a crowd of 17,623 turned out at the old Madison Square Garden to see Long Is
 John Downing Weaver, a writer whose research set right a historical wrong done to 167 black infantrymen in Brownsville, Tex., 96 years ago, died on Dec. 4 in Las Vegas, where he moved from Los Angeles 10 years ago. He was 90. Angelenos celebrated him as their chronicler. He devoted 
 Sonny Carson, a black activist who was one of the central figures in the battle over community control of New York City's public schools in the 1960's, died Friday night at the Manhattan Veterans Affairs Medical Center. He was 66 and lived in Queens. Mr. Carson had been in a coma si
 Harvey B. Scribner, a no-nonsense former teacher from Maine who went on to become the chancellor of New York City's school system as it underwent a turbulent shift toward local control in the early 1970's, died yesterday in Waterville, Me. He was 88. Dr. Scribner arrived in New York
 Joe Strummer, whose raw voice and fervent songs for the Clash showed the punk generation that rebellion could be not just personal but also political, died of a heart attack on Sunday at his farmhouse in Broomfield, Somerset, in southwestern England, his recording company said. He was 50.  
 Grote Reber, a pioneering radio astronomer who built the first substantial radio telescope dedicated to astronomy and put it in his backyard in Wheaton, Ill., died on Friday in Tasmania, Australia, his home for some 50 years. He was 90. Mr. Reber was an engineering student in 1931 w
 John M. Brealey, the chairman of paintings conservation at the Metropolitan Museum of Art from 1975 to 1989, died in New York Hospital on Thursday of complications from the amputation of a leg after a stroke. He was 77. He also had been an adjunct professor at the Institute of Fine 
 Michael J. Ogden, a newspaper industry executive and a former executive editor of The Providence Journal in Rhode Island, died on Thursday at his home in Monterey, Calif. He was 91. His death was announced over the weekend by his son, Christopher. Mr. Ogden joined The Journa
 Stanley Rosenfeld, a photographer whose powerful images of yachts, particularly in America's Cup races, transfigured the sport he documented for nearly 70 years, died Monday in Miami. He was 89 and lived in North Miami Beach. He contributed to more than 20 books and hundreds of maga
 Ralph Turner Millet, who helped Saab of Sweden establish itself in the American market when it began building cars almost a half-century ago, died on Friday at a hospital in Middletown, Conn. He was 85 and had lived in Old Saybrook. The cause was heart disease, his family said.     
 Richie Regan, a star guard on Seton Hall's 1953 National Invitation Tournament champions and later the university's basketball coach, athletic director and fund-raising director for athletics, died Tuesday at a hospital in Neptune, N.J. Regan, who lived in Sea Girt, N.J., was 72. Th
 Robert Alan Bicks, a Manhattan lawyer and the government's leading trustbuster in the Eisenhower administration, died yesterday at New York Hospital. He was 75 and lived on the Upper East Side and in Castine, Me. The cause was respiratory failure, his family said. Mr. Bicks 
 Herb Ritts, the photographer whose glorifying images of the well known helped to further mythologize celebrity in the 1980's and 90's, died yesterday in a Los Angeles hospital. He was 50 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was complications from pneumonia, his friend Stephen Huvane,
 Russell Berrie, a maker of plush animals, toys and gifts who used his considerable wealth to advance health care and support religious and cultural groups, died on Wednesday in Englewood, N.J., where he lived. He was 69. The cause was heart failure, the company said. Mr. Ber
 George Roy Hill, the versatile director whose Hollywood movies included ''Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid'' and ''The Sting,'' which won Academy Awards for best film and best director, died yesterday in his apartment on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 81. The cause was c
 Charles A. Rosen, an engineer who was an early researcher in robotic and artificial intelligence and a founder of Ridge Vineyards in Cupertino, Calif., died on Dec. 8 at his home in Atherton, Calif. He was 85. Born in Montreal, Mr. Rosen came to the United States as a teenager. He s
 Charley Lupica, a Cleveland grocer who became something of a national celebrity when he perched atop a flagpole for 117 days in the summer of 1949 hoping to inspire his beloved Indians to win the American League pennant, died Tuesday at a nursing home in Westlake, Ohio. He was 90. T
 Desmond Hoyte, the former president of Guyana who began a thaw of his nation's socialist policies and ushered in a democratic transition to his opponents, died last Sunday in Georgetown, the capital. He was 73. The cause was heart failure, The Associated Press reported, citing Guyan
 George Weller, a journalist who won a Pulitzer Prize in 1943 for his account of how submarine crewmen working from a medical manual performed an appendectomy while on a war patrol in the Pacific, died Dec. 19 at his home in San Felice Circeo, Italy. He was 95. On Sept. 11, 1942, abo
 Ward Davenny, a pianist, an administrator and a professor emeritus of piano at the School of Music at Yale University, died on Dec. 10 at his home in New Haven. He was 86 and had remained active in performing, organizing concerts and teaching. Born in Ashtabula, Ohio, on July 28, 19
 David A. Richie, a former National Park Service official who had a significant role in protecting the Appalachian Trail from commercial development, highway building and other potential threats, died on Dec. 20 at his home in Hampstead, N.C. He was 70. The cause was colon cancer, hi
 Giovanni Intra, a writer and a partner in China Art Objects Galleries, an influential new gallery in Los Angeles, died on Dec. 17 in an apartment on the Lower East Side of Manhattan. He was 34 and lived in Los Angeles. The New York City Medical Examiner's office said the cause of death was 
 Glen Seator, a highly regarded sculptor who became known in the 1990's for work that replicated architectural situations with uncanny verisimilitude, died on Dec. 21 at his home in Brooklyn. He was 46. He was working on the chimney of his three-story house when he fell to his death,
 Ian Hornak, a representational painter who exhibited his work regularly in New York galleries during the last three decades, died on Dec. 9 in Southampton, N.Y. He was 58. The cause was an abdominal aneurysm, said his dealer, Katharina Rich Perlow. Mr. Hornak came into his o
 James Kilgo, who wrote essays on the outdoors, man's relationship with it and friendship between men, died on Dec. 8 in Athens, Ga. He was 61 and lived in Athens. The cause was complications of cancer, said the University of Georgia Press, his publisher. In ''Inheritance of 
 Richard A. Clarke, a former chairman and chief executive of the Pacific Gas and Electric Company, died on Dec. 14 at his home in San Rafael, Calif. He was 72. The cause was complications of Lou Gehrig's disease, the company said in announcing his death. Mr. Clarke led Pacifi
 Armand Zildjian, who ran a family-owned company that has been making cymbals for almost 400 years, died on Thursday at his home in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 81 and also had a home in Quechee, Vt. The cause was cancer, the family said. The company, Avedis Zildjian, now based i
 Edward J. Kulik, an insurance executive who led the revival of the Chrysler Building in the midst of New York's fiscal meltdown of the 1970's, died Thursday at a hospital in Springfield, Mass. He was 76 and lived in Longmeadow, Mass. The cause was a brain tumor, his family said.    
 Joel Buchsbaum, who turned a thwarted childhood interest in sports into a career as a nationally recognized analyst of professional football, died on Sunday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 48. Ellen Borokove, a spokeswoman for the medical examiner's office, said he died of natural c
