 Aubrey E. Robinson Jr., chief judge of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia from 1982 to 1992, died on Sunday at his home in Washington. He was 77. The cause was a heart attack, The Associated Press reported. In his most notable ruling, Judge Robinso
 Harold M. Mulvey, the Connecticut Superior Court judge who presided calmly over the emotionally charged murder trials of several Black Panthers in the early 1970's, died Sunday at a nursing home in Hamden, Conn. He was 86. In his most famous ruling, Judge Mulvey dismissed murder and
 Dr. John C. Lungren, former President Richard M. Nixon's longtime personal physician, died on Monday at Long Beach Memorial Hospital Medical Center in California, where he guided Nixon's care during a near-fatal illness in 1974. He was 83. Dr. Lungren was a specialist in internal me
 George Duning, an Oscar-nominated composer who wrote music for films and television, died on Sunday at Alavarado Hospital in Los Angeles. He was 92. Mr. Duning received Academy Award nominations for five film scores he wrote for Columbia Pictures, where he worked from 1947 to 1962: 
 Roy Blough, an economist who served in the Roosevelt and Truman administrations, died on Friday at a retirement home in Mitchellville, Md. He was 98. From 1938 to 1946, Mr. Blough was director of tax research at the Treasury Department and assistant to the treasury secretary. From 1
 Archibald W. Stiles, the little boy who had no toys but grew up to become Santa Claus -- and run an eccentric antiques business that let growing children exchange their old ice skates for somebody else's bigger ones -- died Tuesday at a New Jersey convalescent home. He was 89. Mr. S
 Dennis Danell, a guitarist in the influential Orange County punk band Social Distortion, died Tuesday after collapsing at his home in Newport Beach, Calif. He was 38. The cause apparently was a brain aneurysm, said Jim Guerinot, the band's manager. Mr. Danell had embodied th
 James J. O'Leary, an economist and a former vice chairman of the U.S. Trust Corporation, died Monday at his home in Westport, Conn. He was 85. Dr. O'Leary was vice chairman of U.S. Trust, a money management company based in New York, from 1970 until 1980. He also served on t
 Kariel Gardosh, an Israeli political cartoonist who captured the national psyche in depictions of his country as an innocent boy in a tough neighborhood, died on Monday in Tel Aviv. He was 79. The cause was cardiac arrest, his newspaper, Maariv, said. Mr. Gardosh was popular
 The Rev. Brian J. O'Connell, a sociologist who was dean of St. John's University's College of Liberal Arts and Sciences and a former president of Niagara University, died on Monday at a hospital in Rockville Centre, N.Y. He was 59 and lived on the St. John's campus in the Jamaica section of
 Baron Enrico di Portanova, one of the most flamboyant members of the international jet set, who once listed the best things in life as ''sun, sex and spaghetti,'' died on Monday at his home in Houston. He also had homes in Rome and Acapulco, Mexico. The baron's Italian passport gave his age
 Dominic Bruce, a British bomber pilot who made no fewer than 17 attempts in four years to escape from his German captors at the famous Colditz prison, died on Feb. 12 in England. He was 84. Despite his determination and ingenuity, Mr. Bruce was recaptured every time he broke free fr
 Lyndon K. Allin, who worked in the White House under three Republican presidents, died on Monday in a hospital in Washington. He was 59. The cause was chronic lymphocytic leukemia, said his daughter, Stephanie Allin Clemson of Evanston, Ill. Mr. Allin was named in 1967 as th
 Capt. George L. Street III, who won the Medal of Honor in World War II for directing a daring submarine attack that destroyed three Japanese ships off the coast of Korea, died on Feb. 26 at a nursing home in Andover, Mass. He was 86. Serving as the skipper of the submarine Tirante, 
 Vincenzo Ancona, a Sicilian-born poet who was known in his homeland and among Sicilian-Americans for his poems in his native tongue about the immigrant experience, died on Feb. 23 at his home in Brooklyn. He was 84. Mr. Ancona was born and educated in Castellammare del Golfo, Sicily
 Ernest Lough, whose pure, silvery treble voice when he was 15 is preserved on one of history's most memorable classical recordings, died on Feb. 22 at his home in Watford, England. He was 88. His achievement came on March 27, 1927, when he recorded ''O, for the Wings of a Dove,'' fr
 Capt. Chester M. Lee, who survived the kamikaze sinking of a destroyer and later helped NASA send all manner of spacecraft into the heavens, died on Feb. 23 at a hospital in Washington. He was 80 and lived in McLean, Va. He died after heart surgery, his family said. Captain 
 John P. Keith, a former president of the Regional Plan Association, a nonprofit planning agency for the New York City metropolitan area, died Thursday at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 78. The cause of death was congestive heart failure, said his wife, Doris. Mr. Keith was 
 Judge Charles E. Wiggins, a Republican congressman from California who was influential in the Watergate hearings and switched from defending President Richard M. Nixon to supporting impeachment, died on Thursday in Las Vegas. He was 72 and had lived in Las Vegas. The cause was cardi
 Edmond Kaiser, founder of Terre des Hommes and other children's organizations, died on Saturday on a visit to India, a spokesman for one of the charities said. He was 86. Mr. Kaiser organized Terre des Hommes in 1959, after having learned of the condition of children in Algeria. It 
 Edward H. Levi, who began his association with the University of Chicago as a 5-year-old in a special kindergarten there and became the university's president before going on to be a widely admired attorney general of the United States, died yesterday at his home in Chicago. He was 88.     
 Raymond W. Ickes, a retired shipping executive and a son of Harold L. Ickes, who was President Franklin D. Roosevelt's secretary of the interior, died on Thursday at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 87. Mr. Ickes was president of the Natomas Company, the Pacific Far East Line and
 Bill Daniels, a pioneer of the cable television industry, died Tuesday at a hospital in Rancho Mirage, Calif. He was 79. The cause of death was respiratory failure, said Dan Russo, a spokesman with Daniels & Associates in Denver. Mr. Daniels, who lived the last few years in 
 Bill Lewis Downer, a music publisher who worked with many of the leading jazz and pop singers of the 1940's and 50's, died on Feb. 26 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 86. Mr. Downer rose to prominence in the 1940's as the head of Decca Records' music publishing arm, Northern Music
 George Siravo, a pop music arranger who worked with Frank Sinatra, Doris Day, Tony Bennett and other singers, died on Feb. 28 at his home in Medford, Ore. He was 83. A longtime associate of Sinatra's, Mr. Siravo orchestrated that singer's early 50's albums, ''Sing and Dance With Fra
 Noel Annan, an educator, historian and critic whose wide-ranging scholarly pursuits, military experience during World War II and powerful posts in universities and cultural institutions made him an influential member of the British intelligentsia for more than half a century, died on Feb. 2
 Paul Rene Doguereau, a pianist, an exponent of the French piano repertory and the founding director of the Peabody-Mason Music Foundation in Boston, died on March 3 in Mount Holly, N.J. He was 91. Born on Sept. 8, 1908, in Angers, France, to a family whose ancestors included a bisho
 Thomas M. Coffey, a biographer and historian, died on Feb. 24 at his home in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 78. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Linda. Mr. Coffey's book ''Hap: The Story of the U.S. Air Force and the Man Who Built It, General Henry 'Hap' Arnold'' (1982) was
 Daniel Abraham Yanofsky, Canada's first chess grandmaster, died on Sunday at Seven Oaks Hospital in Winnipeg, Manitoba. He was 74. His wife, Hilda, said the cause was cancer and congestive heart failure. Mr. Yanofsky, who was called Abe, was born in Brody, Poland, on March 2
 THERE was a time, back in the fiscally straitened 1970's, that the city was so desperate it turned to known members of the media for help. Thus did Osborn Elliott, departing editor of Newsweek, become a deputy mayor, largely on the strength of his side job as chairman of the Citizens Commit
 Pee Wee King, an eclectic and innovative country music entertainer who was a writer of the pop classic ''Tennessee Waltz,'' died on Tuesday at Jewish Hospital in Louisville, Ky. He was 86. Born Julius Frank Anthony Kuczynski in Abrams, Wis., he began his musical career in the least 
 William Donald Hamilton, one of the towering figures of modern biology and the man who helped to unify Darwin's principles of natural selection with a rigorous understanding of Mendelian genetics, died on Tuesday in Oxford, England. He was 63. Dr. Hamilton was best known for a theor
 Geoffrey H. Moore, who wanted to run a chicken farm but instead became a world-renowned analyst of business cycles, died Thursday at his home in Bloomfield, Conn. He was 86 years old. Dr. Moore rose to prominence during a 30-year career at the National Bureau of Economic Research, a
 Hayward Cirker, the founder and president of Dover Publications, the eclectic paperback publisher of everything from ancient tragedy to ''Build Your Own Inexpensive Dollhouse,'' died on Wednesday at St. Francis Hospital in Roslyn, N.Y. He was 82 and had homes in Manhattan  and Hewlett Bay P
 Joe Mullaney, the basketball coach who built Providence College into a national power in the 1950's and 1960's, and won more games than any other coach in the college's history, died on Wednesday at his home in North Providence, R.I. He was 75. The cause was complications of non-Hod
 Frank Pape, a Chicago police detective who fought more than a dozen gun battles and survived without a scratch while sending nine suspects to their graves, died March 5 at his home in Park Ridge, Ill. He was 91. In his 39 years on the force, beginning in the era of fedoras, tommy gu
 Joseph V. Terenzio, a New York City commissioner of hospitals under Mayor John V. Lindsay and a strong advocate of public health care for the poor, died on Tuesday in a nursing home in Miami. He was 82 and had been in ill health since suffering a stroke in 1993. Mr. Terenzio was the
 Jack Sanford, a hard-throwing right-hander who won 16 consecutive games in propelling the San Francisco Giants to the 1962 National League pennant, died last Tuesday at a hospital in Beckley, W.Va. He was 70. The cause was brain cancer, his family said. Sanford pitched in th
 Spelman Prentice, one of the last surviving grandchildren of John D. Rockefeller and a businessman active in oil and natural gas exploration, died on Thursday at his home in Montecito, Calif. He was 88. For many years, Mr. Prentice pursued oil and gas operations through the company 
 Walter Dana, who propelled polka music to a new prominence in postwar America after a varied career in popular music in Poland, died on March 4 in Miami Beach. He was 96. Having exposed the Poles to American jazz before the war, Mr. Dana took polkas to new audiences when he founded 
 Alfred C. Neal, an economist whose interest in developing the global economy influenced United States trade policy in the 1950's and 1960's, died Wednesday. He was 87 years old and lived in Sarasota, Fla. Dr. Neal, who was one of 11 children, got early exposure to free-enterprise re
 Cardinal Ignatius Kung, one of China's most enduring religious dissidents, who spent most of his adult life in a battle of wills with the Communist government over his right to practice his Roman Catholic faith, died on Sunday in exile at his nephew's home in Stamford, Conn. He was 98.     
 Malcolm Wilson, who spent 15 years as Nelson A. Rockefeller's lieutenant governor and one year as governor of New York, died yesterday at his daughter's home in New Rochelle. He was 86. Long the understudy (and after 36 years of state service in all), Mr. Wilson finally became gover
 Henry S. Middendorf Jr., a prominent New York lawyer who also was active in conservative politics, serving as vice chairman of the Conservative Party in New York State, died Thursday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 77. The cause of death was a heart attack, said Robert S
 Mack Robinson, who was a silver medalist in the 1936 Berlin Olympics but would be overshadowed by the track great Jesse Owens and by his younger brother, the pioneering baseball Hall of Famer Jackie Robinson, died Sunday at a hospital in Pasadena, Calif. He was 85. He was one of Ame
 Joseph Goldstein, a longtime law professor at Yale who was widely known for his interdisciplinary approach to family law and other legal fields, died on Sunday at a hospital in New Haven. He was 76 and lived in Woodbridge, Conn. The cause was a heart attack, the Yale Law School's di
 William Colvig, an instrument builder who collaborated with the composer Lou Harrison on gamelans and other percussion instruments and who was Mr. Harrison's companion for 33 years, died on March 2 in Capitola, Calif. He was 82 and lived in Aptos, Calif. Mr. Colvig was born in Medfo
 Alexander Dreier, a broadcaster who was known for his reports from Europe during World War II and who later worked as a television journalist in Southern California and Chicago, died on Sunday at his home in Rancho Mirage, Calif. He was 83. Mr. Dreier was born in Honolulu on June 26
 Bobb McKittrick, who helped the San Francisco 49ers win five Super Bowls in his two decades as one of the National Football League's premier offensive-line coaches, died yesterday at Stanford (Calif.) University Medical Center. He was 64. McKittrick had been suffering from cancer of
 Hylan Garnet Lewis, a sociologist and pioneer in the field of community studies who was active in public life and taught in New York for years, died on March 8 at a hospital in Versailles, France. He was 88, lived on Manhattan's Upper West Side and had been visiting France. The deat
 Jack Mann, an award-winning sportswriter and editor, died last Saturday in Columbia, Md. He was 74 and lived in Laurel, Md. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Mann was the sports editor at Newsday from 1960 to 1962, helping turn what had been a section with a local focus int
 Joseph Sullivan, a New Jersey businessman who ran for governor and later served as chairman of the New Jersey Turnpike Authority, died Monday at a hospital in Morristown, N.J. He was 63. The cause was a stroke, said a son, Edward Sullivan. Mr. Sullivan, who lived in New Vern
 Paul Rudolph Jolles, a Swiss diplomat who played a key role in promoting the peaceful use of atomic energy through the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna and later became chairman of Nestle, the Swiss food-products group, died on March 11 in Bern. He was 80. At the end of 
 Bruce C. Hackett, a former managing director of Salomon Brothers, died on March 10 at his home in New York. He was 61. The cause was amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, known as Lou Gehrig's disease, said his wife, Joann. Mr. Hackett worked for Salomon Brothers for 30 years start
 Dr. Eugene D. Robin, a medical professor, researcher and advocate of patients' rights and education, died on March 8 in a hospital in Eureka, Calif. He was 80 and lived in Trinidad, Calif. The cause of death was complications from cancer, said his wife, Jane. Dr. Robin was t
 Fred Kelly, a producer, director, choreographer and dance instructor who taught his brother Gene to tap-dance -- not to mention polishing young John Travolta's early moves -- died of cancer on Wednesday in Tucson. He was 83. Mr. Kelly, who appeared on Broadway and in movies and was 
 John L. Wehle Jr., the chairman of the Genesee Corporation, died on March 10 at the Genesee Region Home Care and Hospice in Rochester after a battle with cancer. Mr. Wehle, a Rochester resident, was 53. He had been the chairman of Genesee, the Rochester company that owns the Genesee
 Morris B. Abram, a small-town boy from Georgia who went on to play a role in the civil rights movement, become a leader of the American Jewish community, serve as president of Brandeis University and fill posts on a variety of commissions and panels under five presidents, died yesterday at 
 Richard Hodgson, an engineer and executive who did early development work in radar and television and played a role in the events that led to the creation of Silicon Valley, died on March 4 in Barbados. He was 83. He died of injuries from an automobile accident, a daughter, Brooke D
 Col. Thomas W. Ferebee, the bombardier who dropped the atomic bomb on the Japanese city of Hiroshima in World War II, died on Thursday at his home in Windermere, Fla. He was 81. At 8:15:17 a.m. on Aug. 6, 1945, Colonel Ferebee, then a 26-year-old major, pushed a lever in his B-29 bo
 Joseph Marshall Parriott, the chief designer for a wide range of objects including the stainless-steel Steam-O-Matic steam iron, the WaterPik and a roomy and comfortable taxicab (which never went into production), died last Sunday at the Bassett Hospital in Cooperstown, N.Y. He was 79 and l
 Nicolas Hardy Walter, a one-time choirboy who became an influential and indefatigable anarchist, atheist and humanist, died on March 7 in Milton Keynes in central England. He was 65. Mr. Walter, who lived in London, died of long-dormant testicular cancer, which he developed in 1973.
 Sonny Hine, who owned and trained Skip Away, the Horse of the Year in 1998 and one of racing's stars of modern times, died Friday at a hospital in Miami. He was 69. Hialeah racing officials reported that Hine died of complications from pneumonia. He had been suffering from cancer si
 Bertrand Fox, an economist and expert on the securities industry who taught for more than 20 years at the Harvard Business School, died Tuesday at his home in Lexington, Mass. He was 92. Mr. Fox, who lived in Lexington for 45 years, was the business school's director of research fro
 Bob Blackman, an innovative football coach at Dartmouth, Illinois and Cornell in a career that spanned 34 seasons, died Friday at a hospital in Burlingame, Calif. Blackman, who lived in Hilton Head, S.C., was 81. Blackman's wife, Katharine, said he was hospitalized while they were o
 Rex Everhart, a character actor who appeared in 26 Broadway productions ranging from ''1776,'' in which he played Ben Franklin, to ''Working,'' for which he received a Tony Award nomination, died last Monday at a hospice in Branford, Conn. He was 79. The cause was lung cancer, said 
 Roger Longrigg, a prolific British novelist who often wrote under pseudonyms, male and female, died on Feb. 26 at the Phyllis Tuckwell Hospice in Farnham, Surrey, England. He was 70. The cause of death was not announced, The Associated Press reported. Mr. Longrigg had a care
 J. Russell King, a deputy news editor of The New York Times who sharpened the prose of reporters, the precision of headlines and the meaning of news for readers with a learned, subtle and anonymous hand, died on Saturday night at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 45 and lived in 
 Adolf K. Placzek, a distinguished architectural librarian, historian, editor and preservationist, died on Sunday night at his home in Manhattan, said his nephew, John Maxtone-Graham. He was 87. Mr. Placzek transformed the Avery Architectural Library at Columbia University, where he 
 Harry McNally, a construction engineer with the Pennsylvania Railroad who was in charge of the demolition of Pennsylvania Station in 1963, died on March 11 at a hospital in Bradenton, Fla. He was 85. As the railroad's chief engineer for New York improvements from 1963 to 1967, Mr. M
 Herman B Wells, the president of Indiana University during 25 years of steady growth and social change, died on Saturday at age 97 at his home in Bloomington, Ind., not far off the campus of the university that was the center of his life for more than 70 years. Under Mr. Wells's lea
 Dr. Louis Weinstein, a founder of the modern medical specialty of infectious diseases and a leading medical educator, died on Thursday at a nursing home near his home in Newton, Mass. He was 92. ''He put clinical infectious diseases on the map and made it a very strong specialty,'' 
 Marshall B. Coyne, whose Madison Hotel brought a new level of luxury to the nation's capital, serving presidents, kings, prime ministers and celebrities like Frank Sinatra and Bob Hope, died at his home on Thursday. He was 89. Mr. Coyne, a native of Maspeth, N.Y., moved to Washingto
 Roy Henderson, a Scottish baritone who sang in the first performances at Glyndebourne and became a distinguished teacher with Kathleen Ferrier and John Shirley-Quirk among his students, died on Thursday at a home run by the British Musicians' Benevolent Fund in Bromley, Kent, near London. H
 Maj. Ivan Hirst, the British Army officer responsible for getting the Volkswagen factory running again after World War II in what is now Wolfsburg, Germany, died March 10 at his home near Marsden, in Yorkshire, England. He was 84. Without his efforts, Volkswagen probably could never
 Ramon Mitra, who rose from rural poverty to become a leading politician and democratic foe of the Marcos dictatorship in the Philippines, died on Monday in Manila. He was 72. Local news reports, citing family sources, said the cause was liver cancer. During his career, Mr. M
 Erard A. Matthiessen, an architect and conservationist, died on March 8 at the home of a friend in Sanibel, Fla. He was 97. Mr. Matthiessen, who lived in Irvington, N.Y., and on Fishers Island in New York, was a partner at the architecture firm of Henry Otis Chapman & Son in New Yor
 Kazimierz Brandys, a prolific novelist and diarist who began his career as a promoter of Socialist Realism in Poland and ended it in exile in Paris, died here on March 11. He was 83. Already well known in his homeland, Mr. Brandys came to the attention of American readers in 1984 wi
 Ross Russell, who recorded Charlie Parker on his small independent jazz label, Dial Records, and wrote a biography of Parker as well as a book on the history of Kansas City jazz, died on Jan. 31 at a hospital in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 90. Mr. Russell was born and raised in Los 
 Mark Lombardi, an artist whose elegant, minutely detailed diagrams of political and financial scandals brought a distinctive voice to late Conceptualism, was found hanged in his loft in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, on Wednesday evening, the police said. He was 48. A spokesman for the 90t
 Warren Egbert Magee, a lawyer who represented Nazi war criminals, corrupt politicians and Senator Joseph R. McCarthy, died on Feb. 25 in Washington. He was 91. Mr. Magee represented the last seven Nazi war criminals condemned to death at the Nuremberg trials and then hanged after Wo
 Dr. Bernard D. Challenor, a longtime public health educator at Columbia University, died March 15 at his home in Manhattan. He was 63. The cause of death was a heart attack, said Jeanne M. Stellman, a colleague at Columbia. Dr. Challenor was a professor at the Joseph L. Mail
 Ferenc Berko, a Hungarian-born photographer who was a pioneer in the use of color film and helped to put Aspen, Colo., prominently on the map, died on March 18 at a hospital in Aspen where he had lived for half a century. He was 84. After capturing faces, places and figures througho
 The trombonist Al Grey, a member of the Count Basie band through various stretches from 1957 to 1977 and a strong, humorous improviser, died on Friday at a hospital in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 74 and lived in Great Neck, N.Y. The cause was complications from diabetes, said his compa
 Edward F. Knipling, whose revolutionary approach to agricultural pest control helped banish the once fearsome screwworm, died on March 17 at his home in Arlington, Va. He was three days shy of his 91st birthday. Dr. Knipling, for many years the top entomologist at the federal Depart
 Sig Mickelson, who as the first director of CBS television news attended at the birth of what became one of the nation's most powerful news organizations before moving into a second career in government and academia, died Friday evening in San Diego. He was 86. In his years with CBS
 Albert R. Connelly, a retired partner at the New York law firm of Cravath, Swaine & Moore, died at his home in Manhattan last Wednesday. He was 91. Mr. Connelly spent his entire professional career, from 1932 to 1978, at the law firm. He became a partner in 1941 and practiced in man
 Glenn Exum, a mountain climber who conquered the summits of the Alps and the Rockies and shared his experience with hundreds of others through his guide service, died on March 17 at his home in Littleton, Colo. He was 88. A tall, debonair man, Mr. Exum established one of the routes 
 Klaus Piper, a German publisher who helped build his family's business into one of Europe's most respected intellectual imprints, died on Saturday at his home in Munich. He was 88. Mr. Piper (pronounced PEE-per) learned the trade after joining his family's publishing house in 1932 a
 Raymond Katz, a television and theatrical producer and a personal manager, died on Thursday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 83 and lived in Los Angeles. From 1970 to 1985 Mr. Katz, with his partner and cousin Sandy Gallin, ran a management and production business that created t
 Dr. Alex Comfort, whose graphically illustrated 1972 book ''The Joy of Sex'' became the coffee-table Kama Sutra of the baby-boom generation, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Banbury, northwest of London. He was 80. Dr. Comfort noisily regretted that his hurriedly written book (by
 Henry W. McGee Sr., the first black postmaster in Chicago, died on March 18 at his home in Chicago. He was 90. Mr. McGee became postmaster in 1966 and retired in 1973. He began his career at the post office as a temporary substitute clerk in 1929 and became a full-time clerk in 1935
 Mark Stuart, a longtime newspaper columnist and editor at The Record in Hackensack, N.J., and The Paterson Morning Call, died Friday at the Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 80. The cause was pneumonia complicated by Parkinson's disease, said his wife, Melba, from their home
 Will Lissner, a reporter for The New York Times from 1926 until he retired in 1976, died on Saturday in a nursing home in Dunedin, Fla. He was 91 and lived in Clearwater, Fla. For many years, Mr. Lissner specialized in writing about economics, but his varied assignments as a reporte
 Anthony Powell, the English novelist whose 12-volume work, ''A Dance to the Music of Time,'' is regarded as one of the great achievements of postwar literature, died on Tuesday at his home near Frome in  Somerset, England. He was 94. Mr. Powell -- his name rhymes with Lowell -- was 
 Dr. Leopold Bellak, a psychiatrist, psychoanalyst and psychologist best known for his contributions in the fields of psychological testing and abnormal psychology, died on Friday at a nursing home in Mamaroneck, N.Y. A resident of neighboring Larchmont, he was 83. The cause was pneu
 Adam B. Ulam, a Harvard historian known for his shrewd understanding of the inner workings of the Soviet Union, particularly at the time of Lenin and Stalin, died on Tuesday in a hospital in Cambridge, Mass. He was 77. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. In the days before h
 Carl S. Shoup, a Columbia University economist who oversaw the creation of a modern tax system for Japan after World War II, helped invent the value-added tax and made a major study of ways Americans could be taxed, died March 23 at a nursing home in Laconia, N.H. He was 97. Many of
 Ian Dury, an emblem of the English punk music movement, died on Monday at his home in Hampstead, London. He was 57. The cause was liver cancer; Mr. Dury had made his illness public in 1998. Though ailing, Mr. Dury had performed last month at the London Palladium and continued his lo
 Rudolf Kirchschlager, the popular and widely respected president of Austria from 1974 to 1986, died of a heart attack yesterday, a government spokesman in Vienna announced. He had just turned 85 and lived in Vienna. A political outsider, a former judge and career diplomat, Mr. Kirch
