 Edward N. Hoffman, an advertising executive for 50 years who never retired, died on April 23 in Chicago. He was 79 and had moved to Chicago last year from New Canaan, Conn. Mr. Hoffman's specialty was promoting real estate developments and, in the 1980's, advertising condominiums co
 Leslie Stevens, a writer, director and producer who achieved success on Broadway, in Hollywood and on television with plays like ''The Marriage-Go-Round,'' films like ''The Left-Handed Gun'' and television series like ''The Outer Limits,'' died on April 24 in Los Angeles. He was 74.        
 Louis Peterson, the author of ''Take a Giant Step,'' a groundbreaking Broadway play of the early 1950's about a young black man growing up in a middle-class white neighborhood in New England, died on Monday at the Kateri Residence in Manhattan, where he lived. He was 76. Mr. Peterso
 Nizar Qabbani, who left life as a Syrian diplomat to become one of the Arab world's greatest poets, died today in London, where he lived. He was 75. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Qabbani was revered by generations of Arabs for his sensual and romantic ve
 Eldridge Cleaver, whose searing prison memoir ''Soul on Ice'' and leadership in the Black Panther Party made him a symbol of black rebellion in the turbulent 1960's, died yesterday in Pomona, Calif., at the age of 62. At the request of Mr. Cleaver's family, a spokesman for the Pomon
 Hal Laycoe, a National Hockey League defenseman, coach and general manager, died on Tuesday following surgery in Langley, British Columbia. He was 75. Laycoe was remembered chiefly for an encounter in 1955 with the Canadiens' star Maurice Richard that led to Richard's suspension fro
 Don Petersen, a playwright and screenwriter who wrote ''Does a Tiger Wear a Necktie?'' -- in which Al Pacino made his electrifying Broadway debut in 1969 -- died on April 25 at the Senior Lodge in Pittsfield, Mass. He was 70 and lived in Stockbridge, Mass. The cause was lung and liv
 John White Hughes Bassett, a prominent figure in Canadian journalism, politics and sports for more than 40 years, died on Monday in Toronto. He was 82. Mr. Bassett was the chairman of Baton Broadcasting Inc., which controls CTV, Canada's largest private television network. At one ti
 Marvin Worth, a prolific writer and producer whose film credits ranged from black comedy (''Where's Poppa?'') to documentary biography (''Lenny'' and ''Malcolm X''), died on April 22 at U.C.L.A. Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 72. The cause was lung cancer, his publicist said.
 Robert Campbell Kirkwood, a former chairman and chief executive of the F. W. Woolworth Company, died on Monday at the Palm Beach Gardens Medical Center in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. Mr. Kirkwood, who lived in North Palm Beach, Fla., was 93. Mr. Kirkwood, who worked for the variety-sto
 Lou Cioffi, a broadcast journalist who covered the Korean War in the 1950's, the Vietnam War in the 1960's and the 1979-1981 hostage crisis in Iran, died on Saturday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He turned 72 last week. The cause was complications from liver cance
 Otto L. Bettmann, who fled to New York from Nazi Germany in 1935 with two trunks of prints and photographs and founded the renowned Bettmann Archive, a commercial treasure house of pictorial material that percolated into American culture through newspapers, magazines, books and television, 
 Defense Minister Gojko Susak of Croatia, who went from running a pizzeria in Ottawa to playing a vital role in the Croatian war of independence from Yugoslavia in the 1990's, died on Sunday night in Dubrava Hospital in Zagreb. He was 53. The cause of death was lung cancer, said Andr
 Patrick Hayes, one of the last of the American impresarios and virtually the only presenter of musicians, singers and dancers in Washington before the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts opened in 1971, died on Sunday at George Washington University Medical Center. He was 89. Fro
 Samuel Cummings, the world's biggest small-arms dealer, died on April 29 in Monaco after a series of strokes. He was 71 and had long reigned as the undisputed philosopher-king of the arms trade. In a world marked by secrecy, deception, swindles and scams, Mr. Cummings stood out. He 
 Gene Raymond, whose dashing blond looks led to a long career in theater, film and television, died on Sunday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 89. The cause was pneumonia, said his publicist, Esme Chandlee. He started on Broadway in 1920 at the age of 12 
 Former Prime Minister Chatichai Choonhavan of Thailand, who personified the nation's old-school style of wheeler-dealer politics until he was ousted in a coup, died yesterday in a London hospital. He was 76. He was being treated for liver cancer, his family said. A brilliant
 J. Gordon Lippincott, who helped design the Campbell soup label, the Tucker automobile and the interior of the Nautilus nuclear submarine before pioneering the new field of corporate identity, died on April 29 at his home in North Haven. Conn. He was 89. He died of a heart-related i
 Alan Simpson, the president of Vassar College in the turbulent 1960's and 70's whose easygoing charm, wit and scholarship helped him weather not only a time of student protest but also the admission of men to the all-women school, died on Tuesday at Lake Forest Hospital in Lake Forest, Ill.
 Jack Frederick Wilder, a retired educator and administrator in psychiatry who was an innovator in the move toward community-based services for the mentally ill in the 1960's and 70's, died on April 28 at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 72. The cause was heart disease, his family
 Paul Seymour, a guard for the old Syracuse Nationals known for his feisty style of play, the captain of their 1955 National Basketball Association championship team and a former coach, died on Wednesday at his winter home in Jensen Beach, Fla. He was 70. He had been suffering from h
 Allan MacLeod Cormack, whose boyhood fascination with the vast canopy of stars above his South African home started him on a circuitous journey that led him to the accidental discovery of the underpinning of CAT scan X-ray technology and a share of the 1979 Nobel Prize for medicine, died on
 Charles (Bebe) Rebozo, a self-made Florida millionaire who met Richard M. Nixon in 1950 and became his lifelong friend, died last night in Miami. He was 85 years old, born just three months before Mr. Nixon, the man who became the 37th President of the United States. The Rebozo-Nixo
 Charles W. V. Meares, a former chairman and chief executive of the New York Life Insurance Company, died on April 29 at his home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 91. Mr. Meares, who was known as Vic, emigrated with his family from England in 1923, when he was 16. He went to work for New
 Eddie Rabbitt, a singer and songwriter who defined ''crossover'' in country and pop music of the 1970's and 80's and had 26 No. 1 country singles, died on Thursday at Baptist Hospital in Nashville. He was 56. The cause was lung cancer, said a spokesman for the Brokaw Company, his ma
 Roy Eckardt, a leading scholar of Christian-Jewish relations and chairman emeritus of religion studies at Lehigh University in Bethlehem, Pa., died on Tuesday at his home in Coopersburg, Pa. He was 79. He had a brain tumor, the university said. Dr. Eckardt, a clergyman in th
 Former Senator Jennings Randolph of West Virginia, a Democrat who was present at the creation of the New Deal and wrote the constitutional amendment that gave 18-year-olds the right to vote, died today at a nursing home in St. Louis. He was 96. Mr. Randolph had been living at the St
 Bebe Rebozo, a self-made Florida millionaire who met Richard M. Nixon in 1950 and became his longtime friend, died on Friday night at Baptist Hospital in Miami. He was 85 years old, born two months before  Nixon, the man who became the 37th President of the United States. The Rebozo
 Myres Smith McDougal, an authority on international law and co-founder of the New Haven school of jurisprudence, died on Thursday at the Evergreen Woods Health Center in North Branford, Conn. A longtime resident of New Haven, he was 91. He died after a long illness, according to the
 Ordway Hilton, a budding mathematician who emerged as one of the nation's foremost authorities on detecting forged documents, died on April 15 at a hospital in Spartanburg, S.C. He was 84 and had played a role in exposing some of the century's most celebrated forgeries, and, in an embarrass
 Paul G. Hearne, a high-spirited Washington lawyer who for more than two decades was one of the nation's most effective champions for people with disabilities, died on May 3 at his home in Arlington, Va. He was 48 and had been a founder or officer of virtually every national organization dev
 John Peter, the New York art director whose poster of a blue rooster with fluttering Allied flags atop the message ''Le Jour Se Leve'' cheered war-weary Parisians after the Liberation in 1944, died on May 1 in Philadelphia on a business trip. He was 81 and had homes in Norwalk, Conn., and M
 Ronald L. Ridenhour, the Vietnam veteran who in 1969 first disclosed the My Lai massacre of Vietnamese civilians by United States Army troops, died yesterday in Metairie, La. He was 52. The cause apparently was a heart attack while playing handball, said his companion, Mary Howell. 
 Jose Francisco Pena Gomez, a three-time candidate for President of the Dominican Republic who rose from a childhood of extreme poverty to become one of the most prominent black political figures in Latin America, died on Sunday night at his home outside Santo Domingo. He was 61. Mr.
 Mordechai Strigler, the editor of the Yiddish-language Forward and one of the most prolific Yiddish writers of the postwar period, died on Sunday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 76. The cause was a brain injury from a fall, said Dr. Barnett Zumoff, presi
 Ray Noble, a catcher on the New York Giants team that staged a memorable comeback to overtake the Brooklyn Dodgers for the 1951 National League pennant, died on Saturday at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He lived in Brooklyn and was 79. The cause was complications of diabetes,
 Thomas R. Dashiell, who became a major figure in America's effort to develop offensive biological weapons but later worked to destroy them, died on May 4 in Frederick, Md., where he lived. He was 70. The cause was leukemia, his family said. With degrees in biology and chemic
 David Selden, whose combative leadership of the American Federation of Teachers earned him a 60-day jail term alongside striking teachers in Newark in 1968, died on Friday at Bronson Methodist Hospital in Kalamazoo, Mich. He was 83, and lived in Kalamazoo. The cause of death was hea
 Herbert Waide Hemphill Jr., a collector and curator whose passion for American folk art helped redefine the field, died on Friday at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 69 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was heart failure, said his nephew, J. Marshall Hemphill, of Lancaste
 Hermann Lenz, who sprang from decades of obscurity to become one of modern Germany's most significant and prolific authors, died today in Munich, his publisher, Suhrkamp, said. He was 85 and lived in Munich. Between 1936 and 1997, Mr. Lenz published more than 30 works, domin
 Clarence Cecil Pell, an aviation insurance executive, who was probably better known as the preserver of medieval court tennis in America, died on Tuesday at Rhode Island Hospital in Providence. R.I. A former resident of Old Westbury, N.Y., he was 86 and had made Narragansett, R.I., his perm
 Col. Donald Conroy, a storied Marine fighter pilot whose domestic code dictated that he never strike his daughters and not begin beating his sons until after they had learned to walk, died on Saturday at a hospital in Beaufort, S.C. He was 77 and best known as the model for the tyrannical t
 Emery I. Valyi, a prolific inventor whose innovations included a way for Pepsi drinkers to more easily pour a 2-liter plastic soft-drink bottle, died May 5 at Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount Kisco, N.Y. Dr. Valyi died of complications from cancer, according to his daughter, K
 Kalman Seigel, who spent 13 of his 41 years at The New York Times as editor of the Letters to the Editor department of the paper, died yesterday at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 80 and lived in Brooklyn. Family members said the cause of death was pancreatic
 MANY executives bounce between private industry and public service in the course of their careers. But Frank G. Zarb seems to oscillate, like a radio wave, between Wall Street and Washington. He left New York the first time for the Department of Labor under President Richard M. Nixo
 Earl Manigault, a New York City playground legend whose superior basketball talent deteriorated with years of heroin use, depriving him of a chance for a professional career, died Thursday night at Bellevue Hospital in Manhattan. He was 53. The cause was congestive heart failure, sa
 Frank Sinatra, the singer and actor whose extraordinary voice elevated popular song into an art, died  on Thursday night in Los Angeles. He was 82. The cause was a heart attack, said his publicity agent, Susan Reynolds.  Ms. Reynolds said his fourth wife, Barbara, his son, Frank Jr.
 Miles W. Kirkpatrick, who oversaw a study that was sharply critical of the Federal Trade Commission and was then given the job of rejuvenating the agency as its chairman, died on May 2 at his home in Strafford, Pa.. He was 79. The cause of death was cancer, according to his son, Wil
 Thomas A. Williams, the president of the Depository Trust Company in Manhattan, died April 25 at the United Hospital Medical Center in Port Chester, N.Y. He was 61 years old and died shortly after suffering a heart attack while sailing on Long Island Sound, according to William F. J
 William Louther, a leading American modern dancer who also directed the Batsheva Dance Company of Israel and helped to establish modern dance in England, died on May 7 at St. George's Hospital in London. He was 56 and lived in London. The cause was esophageal cancer, his wife, Sharo
 Austin V. Koenen, a well-known Wall Street banker and public finance specialist who was chief executive of the China International Capital Corporation, an investment banking company owned by the Chinese Government and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Company, died early this month in Beijing. H
 Frank Ragano, a lawyer for both a Florida mob chieftain and James R. Hoffa of the teamsters' union and later co-author of a book about his experiences with organized crime, died in his sleep on Wednesday at his home in Tampa, Fla. He was 75. In the book, ''Mob Lawyer'' (Scribner's, 
 Henry Tanner, a Swiss-born reporter who covered everything from wars to diplomatic receptions with equal aplomb during a half-century career in journalism, died on Friday night at a hospital near his weekend home in Honfleur, France. A resident of Paris, he was 79 and had been a for
 John Hawkes, a veteran and highly  praised author of avant-garde and experimental fiction, died on Friday  at Rhode Island Hospital in Providence. He was 72 and lived in Providence. The cause was a stroke that Mr. Hawkes had during heart bypass surgery on Monday at the hospital, sai
 The Rev. Walter Dray Wagoner Sr., a leader in theological education, author and senior minister emeritus of the Round Hill Community Church in Greenwich, Conn., died on May 7 at Greenwich Hospital. He was 79 and lived in Greenwich. The cause was complications from multiple myeloma, 
 Dr. Sidney Cobb, an epidemiologist who studied the effects of job stress and who in retirement helped inspire a national study of cancer rates near nuclear reactors, died on April 7 at the Woolman Hospital at the Medford Leas, a retirement center near Mount Holly, N.J. He was 81. Th
 Rabbi Moshe Sherer, who built a relatively small Orthodox Jewish organization, Agudath Israel of America, into a politically and religiously influential force among American Jewish groups, died Sunday afternoon in Manhattan. He was 76 and lived in Brooklyn. He died after an illness 
 Alan D. Williams, a skilled and versatile editor and publisher of books by authors ranging from the thriller-writer Frederick Forsyth and the horror writer Stephen King to the novelist Nadine Gordimer, who won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1991, died on Sunday at his home in Jersey City,
 James Carroll McIntyre, a fund-raiser for the arts and a former executive at Carnegie Hall and the Big Apple Circus, died on Friday at his home in Saylorsburg, Pa. He was 49 and also had a home in Greenwich Village. The cause was not known, said Gary Dunning, executive director of t
 James Carlton Tucker, a national sailing champion in multihulls, died last Thursday at the Fort Walton Beach Medical Center in Florida. He was 38. The cause was a heart attack, said his father, James. Tucker, who was known as Carlton, managed the Boat, a marina in his hometo
 Robert Griffin, a retired track coach at Florida A&M University who helped guide the career of the sprinter Bob Hayes, died last Wednesday at Tallahassee Memorial Hospital in Florida. Griffin, who lived in Tallahassee, was 81. The cause was a stroke, his wife, Charlotte, said.      
 Sousuke Uno, a former Prime Minister who resigned after two months in the post because of accusations of an extramarital affair, died today in Moriyama, Japan. He was 75. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. Mr. Uno was an unlikely choice for Prime Minister when he wa
 Finis E. DavisFinis E. Davis, an executive, educator and fund-raiser who spent his life serving the blind at home in Kentucky and around the world, died last Friday at the Episcopal Church Home in Louisville. He was 86. Mr. Davis fulfilled his service to the blind in two main arenas
 Morton Rosenthal, whose family's funeral business evolved through mergers and acquisitions into Time Warner Inc., died on Friday. He was 89. With his brother, Edward, and Edward's son-in-law, Steven J. Ross, Mr. Rosenthal helped run a group of funeral chapels that acquired companies
 George D. Grundy Jr., the last of the world's first fliers, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Leesburg, Fla. He was 99 and had been the sole surviving member of the Early Birds, an international organization of aviation pioneers. He buzzed his share of people and livestock on Sta
 Baron Cudlipp of Aldingbourne, who as editorial director and chairman of the wildly popular Mirror newspapers in the 1950's and 60's brought a new populist vigor to the tabloid press in Britain, died at his home in Chichester, West Sussex, on Sunday. He was 84 and had been suffering from lu
 William A. Hewitt, who transformed Deere & Company from a midsized Midwestern tractor company to the world's largest producer of agricultural equipment, died on Saturday at his home in Rutherford, Calif. He was 83. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. As the longti
 Floyd G. Lounsbury, who brought an anthropologist's eye to the study of American Indian languages and helped decipher the hieroglyphs of the Maya, died on May 14 at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford. He was 84 and lived in East Haven, Conn. ''He was a master at analyzing complex c
 Francis Goelet, a philanthropist who underwrote the commissions for dozens of new musical works, many opera productions and an important contemporary music recording project, died on Thursday at his home in Riverside, Conn. He was 72. The cause was esophageal cancer, said Philip Goe
 Frank Lovell, an American disciple of Leon Trotsky's brand of Marxism-Leninism and a New York City writer and editor concerned with socialist and trade-union issues, died on May 1 at his home in the East Village. He was 84. He was a former labor editor of The Militant, the newsweekl
 Dr. Herbert Chasis, a medical researcher at New York University College of Medicine whose early analysis of how the kidney works became required reading for generations of American medical students, died on May 11 at Tisch Hospital in Manhattan. He was 92 and lived in Manhattan. ''H
 John William Berry Sr., a philanthropist who made a fortune taking the Yellow Pages global, died on Wednesday at Miami Valley Hospital in Dayton, Ohio. He was 75 and lived in New Carlisle, Ohio. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said. Mr. Berry, a native of 
 Don Wharton, an editor and a prolific writer of magazine articles, died on May 6 at his home in Manhattan. He was 92. Mr. Wharton's byline was familiar to readers of Look, The Saturday Evening Post, Collier's, Cosmopolitan, Reader's Digest and other magazines for nearly 50 years. He
 Telford Taylor, a principal prosecutor of high Nazi officials and leading German industrialists at the Nuremberg war crimes trials after World War II, died yesterday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 90. His wife, Toby Golick, said the cause of death was a
 Buster Cleveland, who first gained attention for his zany, meticulously made Dadaist collages in the East Village galleries of the early 1980's, died on May 6 at Elmhurst Hospital Center in Queens. He was 55. The cause was cardiac arrest, said his dealer, Gracie Mansion. Mr.
 Charles Drake Webster, a Long Island conservationist, gardener and stalwart of organizations like the Horticultural Society of New York and the Seatuck National Wildlife Refuge in Islip, died on May 15 at Southside Hospital in Bay Shore. He was 92 and lived at Twyford, his home and part of 
 David Schneider, who as an executive for British Airways led the successful fight to bring the supersonic Concorde to New York, died May 1 at his home in Manhattan. He was 77. The cause of death was cancer, his family said. A native of the Bronx, Mr. Schneider was the chief 
 Mark Tarail, an expert in community mental health programs and an adviser on the Federal and state levels, died on May 5 at his home in Somers, N.Y. He was 87. During the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations, Dr. Tarail helped write legislation that fostered mental health centers nat
 Frank C. Montero, a racial pioneer who in his various guises as political gadfly, government official, foundation executive and real estate developer devoted his life to smoothing the way toward an integrated society, died on May 8 at a nursing home in Oberlin, Ohio. He was 89 and a longtim
 Harold Orenstein, an entertainment lawyer who helped redefine the copyright status of musical theater, died on May 15 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 84 and lived in Manhattan. In 1945 Mr. Orenstein became the head of nonradio licensing for Broadcast Music Inc., which r
 Irwin Randolph Hedges, the first coordinator of Food for Peace, a Federal program that delivered surplus American food to needy countries, died May 13 in Washington after a stroke. He was 83 and lived in Washington. Mr. Hedges began his work in agriculture, development and trade at 
 Kenneth Dale Wells, a founder and the spiritual father of the Freedoms Foundation at Valley Forge, which fosters patriotism and understanding of the Constitution and Bill of Rights, died on May 10 at his retirement home in Edgewater, Fla. He was 89. The cause was complications from 
 Merle E. Severy, who founded the National Geographic Society's book division and edited many of its most popular titles, died on May 13 at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 75. The cause was a heart attack, the society said. Among the books that Mr. Severy produced a
 Philip Barry Jr., a producer of plays, films and a number of highly regarded television shows, died on  May 16 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 74 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Patricia. Mr. Barry, whose father was the author of such
 Simon David Strauss, a leading expert on metals markets and a former vice chairman and of Asarco Inc., died on Friday at his home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 86. During a long career associated with the metals industry, Mr. Strauss worked as a journalist, market analyst, wartime ad
 Telford Taylor, a principal prosecutor of high Nazi officials and leading German industrialists at the Nuremberg war crimes trials after World War II, died yesterday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 90. His wife, Toby Golick, said the cause of death was a
 Vice Adm. Kleber Sandlin Masterson, a battleship gunnery officer in World War II and an ordnance expert who helped build the Navy's arsenal of nuclear missiles, died on May 3 at Inova Alexandria Hospital in Alexandria, Va. He was 89. As a newly promoted rear admiral in 1957, Admiral
 Angelus N. Cotsidas, a founder and chairman of the Table Talk Pastry Company, died on May 10, at his home in Westboro, Mass. He was 96. Mr. Cotsidas, a Greek immigrant, started Table Talk in 1924, with Theodore Tonna and Wilfred A. Casavant. Initially, the company sold pastries to r
 Dr. David Rauch, a lifelong New York educator and specialist in adult education, died on May 9 at White Plains Hospital Center. A former resident of Fresh Meadows, N.Y., he was 79 and had been living in a nursing home in Rye Brook, N.Y. He suffered a long illness, according to Ronna
 Philip Hardy Rhodes, a yacht designer of sailboats as diverse as modern ocean racers and topsail schooners, died May 5 at Middlesex Hospital in Middletown, Conn. He was 72. Mr. Rhodes, who lived in Oyster Bay, N.Y., died of cancer, said Paul D. Barefoot, a family friend. Bes
 Roy Evans, the longtime president of the International Table Tennis Federation, died on May 18 in Cardiff, Wales, where he was born. He was 88 and has been credited with coming up with the idea of what he winced at having called Ping-Pong Diplomacy, the 1971 initiative that paved the way fo
 Simon J. Liebowitz, a former New York State Supreme Court justice and State Senator from Brooklyn, died on Sunday at Good Samaritan Hospital in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 92 and a resident of Palm Beach and Brooklyn. From 1960 to 1969, Mr. Liebowitz, a Democrat endorsed by the Citizens
 Carl H. Builder, an analyst with the Rand Corporation whose views on military affairs were widely quoted, died on May 20 at his home in Culver City, Calif. He was 67. The cause was cancer, said Jess Cook, Rand's director of public information. At his death, Mr. Builder was a
 Fred E. Inbau, an early criminologist who helped elevate trickery and deceit to a high art of police interrogation, died on Monday at a hospital near his home in Chicago. He was 89 and had been a longtime law professor at Northwestern University. In a time when law professors have o
 Wolf Mankowitz, a writer of eclectic interests whose prolific output extended to novels, plays, television drama and films, died on May 20 in County Cork, Ireland, where he lived. He was 73. When he retired from writing books in 1991, he disclosed that he had terminal cancer.       
 Arthur F. Mathews, who helped build one of the country's leading legal practices dealing with securities enforcement and white collar crime, died on Sunday at his home in Washington. He was 60. The cause was complications from stomach cancer, according to his brother-in-law, Ben Cri
 George C. Dade, who as a boy on Long Island was so enthralled watching the pioneering giants of aviation take off from his front yard that he devoted much of his life to preserving memories of those early pilots and restoring some of their planes, died on Wednesday at a hospital near his ho
 Barry M. Goldwater of Arizona, the recklessly candid Republican Presidential candidate who founded the modern conservative political movement in America, died yesterday at his home in Paradise Valley, a suburb of Phoenix. He was 89. A statement made public by the family said he died
 Bob Patino, an interior designer known for the quiet sophistication of his design work for homes, stores and restaurants and for his subtle experimentation with materials and textures, died on May 22 at his home in Manhattan. He was 58. The cause was leukemia, Vicente Wolf, his form
 George Wright, a master theater organist with such a deft touch it was said he could make a mighty Wurlitzer swing when it wasn't actually jitterbugging, died on May 10 at a Los Angeles hospital near his home atop the Hollywood Hills. He was 77. Friends said the cause was congestive
 Martin H. Schrader, a former publisher at three Hearst magazines, died on Thursday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. Mr. Schrader, a resident of Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y., was 73. He died of a lung disease, his wife, Ceil, said. Mr. Schrader joined House Beautiful, on
 Philip L. Carret, a founder of one of the country's first mutual funds and a legendary investor who swapped investment ideas with Warren E. Buffett's father half a century ago, died on Thursday at Mount Vernon Hospital in Mount Vernon, N.Y., where he was recovering from hip surgery. He was 
 Chaim Suller, a longtime editor of The Morning Freiheit, a left-wing Yiddish newspaper in New York, who criticized Soviet policy regarding Jewish culture, died on Tuesday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 96 and lived in the East Village of Manhattan. Mr. Suller was
 Dr. David J. L. Luck, a New York educator and biologist who contributed significantly to the field of cell biology, died on May 23 at New York Hospital. He was 69 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause was lymphoma, according to Rockefeller University, where he was
 John Wesley Jones, a retired Foreign Service officer, Ambassador to Libya and Peru and a former deputy commandant of the National War College, died on May 20 in his home in Flat Rock, N.C. He was 90. He retired in 1972 after three years at the War College and 42 years in the Foreign
 Vice Adm. Arthur Robert Gralla, a veteran of three wars whose combat ribbons told of two crippled warships with some 5,500 sailors and airmen snatched from danger in the Pacific, died on May 22 at the Arleigh Burke Pavilion in McLean, Va. He was 85 and, most recently, a resident of Arlingto
