 Barney Simon, a leader in South African theater and an imaginative thorn in the side of the authorities during the apartheid years, died on Friday at Milpark Hospital here. He was 63. Mr. Simon, who had undergone heart bypass surgery two weeks ago, died of a pulmonary embolism, said
 John Walter Stephan, an early member of the New York School of Abstract Expressionism, died on Sunday at Newport Hospital in Rhode Island. He was 88 and lived in Newport. Mr. Stephan was born in Chicago and studied art at the University of Illinois and the Art Institute of Chicago. 
 Philip W. Bonsal, a career diplomat and the last United States Ambassador to Cuba, died Wednesday in his home here. He was 92. He had been under treatment for pneumonia. When Mr. Bonzal arrived in Havana in February 1959 as Ambassador, relations between the United States and
 Roberto De Lamonica, an artist and teacher of graphics at the Art Students League for nearly 30 years, died on Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 62 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was emphysema, said Lawrence Campbell, archivist of the Art Students League.        
 Thomas Augustine Brennan, a retired lawyer and labor counsel for the Hearst Corporation and the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York, died on Tuesday at St. Patrick's Home in the Bronx, where he had lived for the last two years. He was 92 and had homes in Bronxville, N.Y., Wellfleet, Mass
 Willy Eisenhart, a writer on art, died on Sunday in a fall from the roof of the building in which he lived on Spring Street in Little Italy. He was 48. Mr. Eisenhart was born in York, Pa., and attended Princeton University before moving to Manhattan in 1970. He was active at first i
 Bruce Hlibok, a deaf actor who played on Broadway, died on June 23 at his home in Jersey City. He was 34. He died of pneumonia, his family said. Mr. Hlibok (pronounced LEE-bock), who grew up in Jamaica, Queens, and graduated from the Horace Mann School in Riverdale, the Bron
 Ernest Victor Heyn, an author and editor of popular-science books who was the founding editor of Modern Screen and Sport magazines, died on Wednesday at DeWitt Nursing Home in Manhattan. He was 90 and lived in Manhattan and Westport, Conn. Mr. Heyn edited Popular Science from 1964 t
 Frederick M. Supper, the former chairman and owner of the Alexander Proudfoot Company, a management consulting firm in West Palm Beach, Fla., died on Sunday at his home in Palm Beach. He was 78 and had suffered from emphysema, family members said. Mr. Supper joined Alexander Proudfo
 Wolfman Jack, the rock-and-roll disk jockey whose unmistakable raspy voice and on-the-air howls brought him something of a cult following as one of America's best-known radio personalities, died yesterday at his home in Belvidere, N.C. He was 57. The cause was a heart attack, said h
 Gale Gordon, a character actor known for his comic fussiness and his television sitcom roles opposite Lucille Ball, died on Friday at the Redwood Terrace Health Center in Escondido, Calif. He was 89. The cause was cancer, the Associated Press reported. Mr. Gordon was praised
 George A. Elbert, who collaborated with his wife, Virginie, on a score of cookbooks and books about indoor plants, died on Thursday in the New York University Medical Center. He was 83 and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. The cause was congestive heart failure, Mrs. Elbert
 George Seldes, author, journalist and critic of the press who protested the suppression of news and the power of business interests in the 1930's and 1940's, died yesterday in Mount Ascutney Hospital and Health Center in Windsor, Vt. He was 104 years old and lived in Hartland Four Corners, 
 Lewis Hoyer Rabbage, a New York businessman who was a leading collector of American portrait miniatures, died on Tuesday at his sister's home in New Canaan, Conn.. He was 63. The cause was cancer, said Susan Strickler, curator of American art at the Worcester Art Museum in Massachus
 Wolfman Jack, the rock-and-roll disk jockey whose unmistakable raspy voice and on-the-air howls brought him something of a cult following as one of America's best-known radio personalities, died on Saturday at his home in Belvidere, N.C. He was 57. The cause was a heart attack, said
 Benjamin S. Kalnick, a New York lawyer and accountant who served as Mayor of Kings Point, L.I., died on June 24 at New York University Medical Center. He was 84 and lived in retirement in Palm Beach, Fla. Mr. Kalnick was a former national vice president of the American Jewish Congre
 David H. Sawyer, a pioneer in the field of political consulting that burgeoned in the 1970's and 1980's as party machines lost their clout in choosing electoral candidates, died on Sunday in New York Hospital. He was 59 and lived in Manhattan. He had been under treatment for several
 Edward S. Naumburg Jr., a stockbroker who carried on his family's patronage of music through his work with the Naumburg Orchestral Concerts and the international Naumburg competitions, died on Wednesday at Greenwich Hospital in Greenwich, Conn. He was 92. He lived in Manhattan until
 Archbishop Paul Nguyen Van Binh, who led the Archdiocese of Ho Chi Minh City, formerly Saigon, for 35 years, died on Saturday. He was 84. Official Vietnamese newspapers, according to The Associated Press, did not say where he died. His health had been poor for some years, but he rem
 Rowland Wells Redington, a General Electric physicist who helped the company, and the country, gain a leadership role in modern diagnostic imaging, died on June 22 at Samaritan Hospital in Troy, N.Y. He was 70 and lived in Niskayuna, outside Schenectady. The cause was a heart attack
 Rubin Blanck, an author and theorist in the field of ego psychology, died on Wednesday in Durham, N.C., where he had lived for the last two years. He was 81. The cause was cancer, said Pam Rhodes, assistant manager at the Cape Fear Crematory in Fayetteville, N.C. Mr. Blanck,
 Walter F. Lineberger Jr., a Cleveland banker who was an Assistant Secretary of Defense in the early 1960's, died last Thursday at University Hospital in Cleveland. He was 82. The cause was complications from pneumonia, his family said. Mr. Lineberger retired in 1976 as chair
 Dr. Lyman G. Parratt, an X-ray researcher and former chairman of the physics department at Cornell University, died on Thursday at his home in Redmond, Ore. He was 87 and had lived in Ithaca, N.Y., until last year, having been associated with Cornell for more than six decades. The c
 Richard (Pancho) Gonzalez, a two-time national champion whose pride and passion on a tennis court were as compelling as his natural talent, died Monday night in Las Vegas, Nev. He was 67. The cause of death was stomach cancer, said Gonzalez's former wife, Rita Agassi Gonzalez, who s
 Foster Furcolo, whose two two-year terms as Governor of Massachusetts highlighted a lifetime in politics, public service, legal practice, teaching and literary endeavors, died yesterday at Youville Hospital in his hometown, Cambridge, Mass. He was 83. Death was due to heart failure,
 George Leon Weil, a physicist who assisted in the birth of the atomic age, died last Saturday at the Georgetown House retirement home in Washington. A longtime Washington resident, he was 87. He had suffered strokes and heart problems, according to the DeVol Funeral Home in Washingt
 Lar Roberson, a dancer who performed in the 1970's with the companies of Martha Graham, Pearl Lang and Rod Rodgers, died on June 21 at his home in Kensington, Calif. He was 48. The cause was AIDS, said his companion, Thomas Hibdon. Mr. Roberson was a member of the Graham com
 Takeo Fukuda, who as Japan's Prime Minister from 1976 to 1978 was instrumental in concluding a treaty of peace and friendship with China, died yesterday in the hospital of Tokyo Women's Medical College. He was 90 and lived in Tokyo. The cause was chronic emphysema, the Kyodo news se
 Aziz Nesin, an iconoclastic Turkish writer who narrowly escaped death in a 1993 fire set by militant Muslims he had angered, died yesterday while visiting Cesme, a town on Turkey's Aegean coast. He was 80 and had a home in Istanbul. The cause was a heart attack, The Associated Press
 Bert Hardy, a photographer whose images of life in England during and after World War II are considered classics of British photojournalism, died on Monday in Oxted, south of London. He was 82. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. A friendly, easygoing man known eq
 E. Claiborne Robins, a philanthropist who built and lost one of the country's largest pharmaceutical companies, died yesterday at his home in Richmond. He was 84. The cause was cancer of the pancreas, said Randy Fitzgerald, a spokesman for the University of Richmond, where Mr. Robin
 Karim Sanjabi, a veteran Iranian politician who fought both the heavy-handed monarchy of Shah Mohammed Riza Pahlevi and the harsh Islamic fundamentalism of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini that followed, died in exile Tuesday at his home in Carbondale, Ill. He was 90. A law professor at 
 Angus W. McDonald Jr., a specialist in the Communist revolution in China and founder of the Asia Education Center in Minneapolis, died on Monday at his home in Minneapolis. He was 53. The cause was amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or Lou Gehrig's disease, said Archibald Spencer, a friend.    
 Dan Friedman, a graphic designer, author and teacher, died on Thursday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 49 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was AIDS, said his brother, Kenneth Friedman. "Dan was one of the people who created what is known as the 
 Donald Sinclair, an English country veterinarian who was the model for a character in books by James Herriot, including "All Creatures Great and Small," and in the television series of the same title, died on June 28, The Scotsman, an Edinburgh-based newspaper, reported on Monday. He was 84
 Justice Emilio Nunez, who blazed a trail for Hispanic Americans in the judiciary of New York, rising from New York City magistrate to the Appellate Division of the State Supreme Court, died on Thursday at Lenox Hill Hospital. Mr. Nunez, who lived in Manhattan, was 91. After retiring
 Grant S. Lewis, a partner in the law firm of LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 53. He died after a prolonged illness, said Samuel M. Sugden, the firm's chairman. Mr. Lewis was born in Manhattan. He graduated Phi Beta Kappa fro
 Harold R. Neumann, a champion airplane speed-racing pilot in the 1930's who went on to set record cross-Atlantic flight times as a commercial pilot, died on Wednesday in San Jose, Calif., the Associated Press reported. He was 89. Mr. Neumann was named the fastest airplane pilot in 1
 Harry S. Tishelman, who as a New York City finance official earned a tribute for helping the city get the biggest returns on its investments, died on Thursday in Phelps Memorial Hospital in North Tarrytown, N.Y. A New York City native, he was 71 and had lived in Tarrytown in recent months. 
 James Shriver 3d, a former managing editor and vice president of the Gallup Poll, died on June 29 at Princeton Hospital in Princeton, N.J. He was 67 and lived in Princeton. The cause was throat cancer, said Mackell M. Shriver, his former wife. From 1974 until his retirement 
 Dr. Bernard F. Riess, a prominent psychologist whose dismissal from the Hunter College faculty in 1952 for refusal to answer Senate questions in the heyday of McCarthyism was redressed by New York City 30 years later, died on Monday at his home in New Preston, Conn. He was 87. In a 
 Christopher Cadbury, an Englishman who helped set up and develop nature preserves in Britain and elsewhere, died on June 25 in Worcestershire, the British newspaper The Daily Telegraph reported Thursday. He was 86. Mr. Cadbury worked in his family's chocolate-manufacturing company, 
 Don K. Price Jr., an educator who devoted much of his career to promoting the role of science in the American Government, died today in the Newton-Wellesley Alzheimer Center in Wellesley, Mass. He was 85 years old and had suffered from Alzheimer's disease for several years. He was a longtim
 Dr. Bernard F. Riess, a prominent psychologist whose dismissal from the Hunter College faculty in 1952 for refusal to answer Senate questions in the heyday of McCarthyism was redressed by New York City 30 years later, died July 3 at his home in New Preston, Conn. He was 87. In a car
 Martin Bucksbaum, a pioneer in the development of shopping centers and real estate investment trusts, died on Friday at his home in Des Moines. He was 74 years old. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. In 1953, Mr. Bucksbaum and his brothers, Maurice and Matthew, b
 Rajan Pillai, one of Asia's most flamboyant businessmen, died on Friday. He was 47 years old. The cause of death was complications from cirrhosis of the liver, said a doctor who had been treating him for the last two years. At the peak of his powers, Mr. Pillai ran Britannia
 Nevitt Sanford, a psychologist whose response to the rise of the Nazis was to develop scientific methods to study prejudice and hatred, died on Friday in a nursing home in Belfast, Me. He was 86. The cause was a heart attack while being treated for a broken hip, said his daughter Ja
 Samuel H. Woolley, an executive who helped turn the Bank of New York Corporation into one of the nation's largest financial institutions, died on Sunday at his home in Morris Plains, N.J. He was 86. As the chairman and chief executive of the Bank of New York, Mr. Woolley engineered 
 Lewis S. Kraft, a retired New Jersey builder, died on Thursday at the Medical Center of Princeton, N.J. He was 72 and lived in Princeton. The cause was complications from a stroke, his family said. Mr. Kraft's company, Longridge Builders, worked on residential developments i
 The Rev. Wendell W. Phillips, a senior priest in the Episcopal Diocese of New York and rector emeritus of Christ's Church in Rye, N.Y., died on Friday at his home in Clinton, N.Y. He was 89. Father Phillips was the rector of Christ's Church from 1939 until his retirement in 1977. He
 Alfonso J. Zirpoli, a senior Federal district judge in San Francisco who was known for his commitment to individual rights, died on Monday at his San Francisco home. He was 90. President John F. Kennedy named Judge Zirpoli to the bench in the Northern District of California in 1961.
 August Belmont 4th, a member of the socially prominent banking and horse racing family and the grandson of the founder of Belmont Park and breeder of the champion Man o' War, died Monday in Easton, Md., where he made his home. He was 86. The cause of death was a stroke, the family s
 Bob Ross, the bushy-haired host of "Joy of Painting" on public television who parlayed the success of his program into an industry of art books and supplies, died on July 4. He was 52. The cause was cancer, said Walter J. Kowalski, the chief executive officer of Bob Ross Inc., in St
 Boris Margo, an artist who was part of the Surrealist branch of the New York School, died on July 5 at Cape Cod Hospital in Hyannis, Mass. He was 92 and for the last decade had spent his summers in Provincetown, Mass., and Venice, Fla. The cause was respiratory complications after s
 Joel David Morgan, an artist manager and concert presenter, died on Tuesday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 35 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was AIDS, said Candace Flores, a friend. Mr. Morgan was born in Fort Walton Beach, Fla., and studied piano at the M
 John J. Conway, a historian and educator who in 18 years at Harvard University befriended many of the students whose curriculum he helped to shape, died on Tuesday in Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 79. Dr. Conway, who lived in Boston and in Conway, Mass., had suffe
 Lewis A. Engman, a former senior Federal official and drug industry spokesman, died yesterday at Georgetown Hospital in Washington. He was 59. The cause was a stroke, said a spokesman for the Generic Pharmaceutical Industry Association, a Washington trade group that Mr. Engman had h
 Max O. Urbahn, a prolific architect of government buildings whose work included the design of what is generally believed to be the largest structure in the world, the Vehicle Assembly Building at Cape Canaveral, Fla., died on Sunday at his home in Stonington, Conn. He was 83. Mr. Ur
 Sidney Sulkin, a writer and former editor at the Kiplinger publishing organization, died on June 29 at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 77 and also had a home in Harwich, Mass. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Sulkin, a poet, short-story writer and novelist, joined
 Dr. George G. Glenner, a leading researcher into the molecular structure of the protein amyloid and its relation to Alzheimer's disease, died on Wednesday at his home in San Diego. He was 67. The cause was systemic senile amyloidosis, said the Medical School of the University of Cal
 Earl Coleman, a jazz singer who recorded with Charlie Parker, Sonny Rollins and Shirley Scott among others, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 69. He suffered cardiac arrest, said Mike Abene, a pianist who often accompanied him. He did not give further details.      
 Godtfred Kirk Christiansen, a Danish executive who made Lego plastic building-brick sets into children's favorites in many countries, died yesterday at his house in Billund, Denmark. He was 75. He had been in ill health for a number of years, said David M. Lafrennie, a spokesman for
 Rabbi Robert E. Goldburg, the former spiritual leader of Congregation Mishkan Israel in Hamden, Conn., died on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 78 and lived in Manhattan, where he moved from Hamden after retiring in 1982. The cause was cancer, said Rabbi Herbert N. Broc
 Simon Geller, who operated a one-man classical music station in Gloucester, Mass., for a quarter-century and battled with the F.C.C. to keep it, died on Tuesday in a hospital in Rockville, Md. He was 75 and lived in Rockville. Mr. Geller was born in Lowell, Mass. After working in ra
 William T. O'Donnell, who engineered the rise of the Bally Manufacturing Corporation from a manufacturer of pinball games into the world's largest producer of slot machines, died on Tuesday at his home in Palm Desert, Calif. He was 72. The cause was cancer, said his daughter Jane.  
 Godtfred Kirk Christiansen, a Danish executive who made Lego plastic building-block sets into children's favorites in many countries around the world, died on Thursday in his house in Billund, Denmark. He was 75. He had been in ill health for a number of years, said David M. Lafrenn
 Morris Chase, a former welfare official who supervised New York City's efforts to deal with the homeless in the 1960's, took his life in San Francisco on Wednesday. He was 90. His daughter, Alice Kaufman, said her father, who had cancer, drowned in San Francisco Bay after leaving a 
 Thomas Gibbons Aylesworth, the author of more than 100 books written mostly for children and young adults, died on Thursday at his home in Stamford, Conn. He was 67. The cause was a heart attack, said Hana Umlauf Lane, a family friend and the editor of some of his books. His
 Edward F. Gray, a former union official who began his career recruiting factory workers in New Jersey and ended it by organizing the elderly in New York, died on Thursday at the Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan. He was 78. The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, said his wif
 John F. Weakland, an innovative psychotherapist who helped originate the field of family therapy and created elegantly simple strategies for solving problems of human behavior at the Mental Research Institute in Palo Alto, Calif., died on July 8 at his home in Palo Alto. He was 76. 
 Brajendra Singh, the last Maharajah of Bharatpur, who was a sportsman and conservationist, died on July 8 in the former princely state of Bharatpur, now part of Rajasthan State in northwestern India. He was 76 and lived in his former principality. His death was reported on Friday by
 Edward F. Gray, a former union official who began his career recruiting factory workers in New Jersey and ended it by organizing the elderly in New York, died on Thursday at the Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications of Parkinson'
 Jean Bony, a French-born art historian who taught at the University of California, Berkeley, from 1962 to 1980, died on July 7 in Australia. He was 86. His death was reported on Saturday in Le Monde. Mr. Bony's books included "The Resistance at Chartres" (1958), "The English
 Deputy Defense Minister Mordechai Gur, a former army Chief of Staff and the general who led the capture of the Old City of Jerusalem in the 1967 Arab-Israeli war, killed himself today, weary of a long battle with cancer. He was 65. The Israeli police said Mr. Gur had shot himself in
 Sir Stephen Spender, the British poet, critic and novelist, died yesterday at St. Mary's Hospital in London. He was 86. He had been taken to the hospital after collapsing at his home in north London, a spokesman for the hospital said. In the 1930's, Stephen Spender was one o
 Harry Guardino, the tough-talking actor who supported himself by working at odd jobs before establishing a career in movies and television and on the stage, died yesterday at Desert Hospital in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 69. The cause was lung cancer, said Lee Snellings, Riverside 
 Juan Manuel Fangio, the Argentine who was the first great race driver of the postwar era, died yesterday morning in Buenos Aires. He was 84. Fangio, the sport's only five-time world champion since the modern Formula One series began in 1950, died at a hospital where he was admitted 
 Sir Stephen Spender, the British poet, critic and novelist, died on Sunday at St. Mary's Hospital in London. He was 86. He had been taken to the hospital after collapsing at his home in north London, a spokesman for the hospital said. In the 1930's, Stephen Spender was one o
 Dr. George W. Crane, a self-described "overeducated farmer," who dispensed modern advice to the lovelorn and old-fashioned horse sense to everybody else through a series of syndicated newspaper columns for some 60 years, died on Monday at his farm outside Hillsboro, Ind. He had cont
 Julius Cohen, a jewelry designer and the owner of the Madison Avenue shop and studio that bears his name, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 81. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Margo Feiden. Working with a rainbow of precious stones and metals, Mr. Cohen cr
 Alan D. Marks, an American pianist living in Germany who was presented in recitals at the 92d Street Y and other New York concert halls, died on July 12 at his home in Berlin. He was 46. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Marks made his debut at Carnegie Recital Hall
 Hugh Hurd, a stage and screen actor who was active in the civil rights movement, died on Saturday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 70 and lived in Greenwich Village. The cause was complications from hypertension and kidney failure, his family said. Mr. Hurd joined with Godf
 Dr. Louis C. Abelson, who in 1950 started what became the J.F.K. Medical Office in a Quonset hut when Kennedy International was little Idlewild Airport in Queens, died on Tuesday at Peninsula Hospital Center in Far Rockaway, Queens. He was 83 and lived in Far Rockaway and Montauk, L.I.     
 Murray Riese, the younger of the redoubtable Riese brothers, who blanketed Manhattan with fast-food restaurants, died on Tuesday at his home in Great Neck, L.I. He was 73 and at his death was chairman of the privately held Riese organization, which operates almost 200 restaurants in New Yor
 William H. Lane, a collector of 20th-century American art and photography, died on Saturday at the Apple Valley Continuing Care Center in Ayer, Mass. He was 81 and lived in Lunenburg, Mass. He died after a long illness, said Theodore E. Stebbins Jr., the curator of American painting
 Barry R. Gross, a professor of philosophy at the City University of New York who was known as one of the earliest scholarly critics of affirmative action programs, died last Friday in Princeton, N.J. He was 58. Professor Gross, who taught at CUNY's York College and lived in Manhatta
 Charles Miller, editor at large and former managing editor of Artforum magazine in New York City, died on July 12 at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 44, and lived in Greenwich Village and East Hampton, L.I. The cause was AIDS, said his companion, Gregory M. Griffin. 
 Murray Riese, the younger of the redoubtable Riese brothers, who blanketed Manhattan with fast-food restaurants, died on Tuesday at his home in Great Neck, L.I. The Riese brothers were widely credited with developing the concept of the food court, a cluster of fast-food restaurants.        
 Stuart B. Peerce, a partner in the law firm of Donovan Leisure Newton & Irvine, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 63. The cause was stomach cancer, his family said. Mr. Peerce, who spent his entire legal career at Donovan Leisure, was chairman of the firm's cor
 Thomas Tang, a senior judge of the United States Court of Appeals, died on Tuesday at Good Samaritan Hospital in Phoenix. A lifelong resident of Phoenix, he was 73. The cause was cancer, the Whitney & Murphy Arcadia Funeral Home in Phoenix reported. Judge Tang was named to t
 Charles Bruck, a conductor and teacher, died on Sunday in Hancock, Me. He was 84. The cause was liver cancer, said Nancie Monteux-Barendse, the president of the Pierre Monteux Memorial Foundation. Mr. Bruck, who lived in Les Baux-de-Provence, France, was in Hancock in his 27
 Dennis Alan Anderson, a child psychiatrist at Long Island Jewish Medical Center in New Hyde Park, Queens, died on Wednesday at Cabrini Hospital. He was 41 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was AIDS-related, a hospital spokeswoman said. Dr. Anderson was a staff psychiatrist a
 William I. Kaufman, a food and wine connoisseur and former television producer and director who wrote some 150 books about those and other subjects, died on Sunday in Livingston, Mont. He was 73 and lived in Eugene, Ore. The cause was a heart attack, said Michael Thoele, a family fr
 Constantin W. Boldyreff, a Russian emigre who fought Soviet Communism as a youth in the Soviet Union and later as a college professor in the United States, died on Tuesday at the Tolstoy Center Nursing Home in Valley Cottage, N.Y. He was 85. The son of a general in the White Russian
 George T. Douris, a New York public relations executive whose clients benefited from his prominence in the city's Greek-American community and the extensive contacts he cultivated during his years as a newspaper reporter covering City Hall, died on Friday at the Roosevelt Hospital Division 
 William E. Woolfenden, who made it his mission to gather every artifact, photograph, scrap of paper and taped recollection he could about American artists, collectors, curators and dealers, died of respiratory failure on Wednesday in New Haven, Conn. He was 77. A resident of Southbu
 Constantin W. Boldyreff, a Russian emigre who fought Communism as a youth in the Soviet Union and later as a college professor in the United States, died on Tuesday at the Tolstoy Center Nursing Home in Valley Cottage, N.Y. He was 85. The son of a general in the White Russian Army w
 Judge Dudley B. Bonsal, a senior United States district judge for the Southern District of New York and a former president of the New York City Bar Association, died on Saturday at his home in Bedford, N.Y. He was 88. Judge Bonsal (pronounced BON-sel) joined the bench in 1961, sitti
 George T. Douris, a New York public relations executive whose clients benefited from his prominence in the city's Greek-American community and the extensive contacts he cultivated during his years as a newspaper reporter covering City Hall, died on Friday at the Roosevelt Hospital Division 
 Robert S. Crandall, who was The New York Times's travel editor and held other editing positions at The Times from 1952 until he retired in 1979, died on July 6 at Lee Memorial Hospital in Fort Myers, Fla. He was 80 and lived in Cape Coral, Fla. His family informed The Times of his d
 William I. Kaufman, a food and wine connoisseur and former television producer and director who wrote some 150 books about those and other subjects, died July 16 in Livingston, Mont. He was 73 and lived in Eugene, Ore. The cause was a heart attack, said Michael Thoele, a family frie
 Elleston Trevor, the prolific English novelist who wrote "The Quiller Memorandum" under the pseudonym Adam Hall, died on July 21 at his home in Cave Creek, Ariz. He was 75. The cause was cancer, said his son, Jean-Pierre. Under his own name, Mr. Trevor wrote "The Flight of t
 John K. Hutchens, an author, book critic and longtime judge of the Book of the Month Club, died on Saturday at the Westchester County Medical Center in Valhalla, N.Y. He was 89 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Hutchens was a book reviewer at The New York Herald Tribune from 1948 to 1963,
 Percy Humphrey, a trumpeter best known for his work with the Preservation Hall Jazz Band, died on Saturday in New Orleans, where he lived. He was 90. Mr. Humphrey was from a musical family in New Orleans -- his grandfather, Jim Humphrey, taught many of the first-generation jazz musi
 Raymond Rosenthal, an American translator who specialized largely in 20th-century Italian fiction, died yesterday at the Cabrini Nursing Home in Manhattan. He was 80 and a longtime resident of Greenwich Village. The cause was lung cancer, said his daughter, Margaret F. Rosenthal, wh
 Vernon I. Cheadle, a former Chancellor of the University of California at Santa Barbara whose 15-year tenure was marked by rapid campus growth as well as student unrest, died on Sunday at Cottage Hospital in Santa Barbara. He was 85. Dr. Cheadle, who lived in Santa Barbara, was an i
 Charlie Rich, the country singer known as the Silver Fox, who had several major hits in the 1970's, died yesterday at a motel in Hammond, La., where he and his wife had stopped for the night on their way to Florida. He was 62. The cause of death was a blood clot in his lung, said th
 George Rodger, a pioneering photojournalist who covered World War II for Life magazine and later helped to found the Magnum photo agency, died today in his home in southern England. He was 87. Long overshadowed by two other co-founders of Magnum, Robert Capa and Henri Cartier-Bresso
 Laurence Wylie, an authority on French language and culture who spent decades in pursuit of the essence of the French soul, died yesterday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 85. Dr. Wylie retired in 1980 after 21 years as the C. Douglas Dillon Professor of the Civilization of Fr
 Rabbi Baruch M. Korff, a confidant of President Richard M. Nixon who was a loquacious defender of him in the Watergate scandal, died yesterday at his home in Providence, R.I. He was 81. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his daughter Zamira Korff. Mr. Nixon wrote in his b
 George W. Romney, an automobile executive who became a three-term Governor of Michigan, a Republican Presidential candidate and a member of the Nixon Cabinet, died yesterday at his home in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., a Detroit suburb. He was 88. His wife, Lenore, whom he married in 193
 Maurice A. Weinstein, a champion of Jewish education on the national level, died on Tuesday at Carolinas Medical Center in Charlotte, N.C. He was 79 and lived in Charlotte. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Weinstein helped to create a study institute for adult Jews
 Michael Andrews, a painter who for more than 30 years was an elusive but legendary presence in the London art world, died on July 19 in London. He was 66. The cause was cancer, London newspapers reported over the weekend. While a student at the Slade School of Art in the ear
 Mihail Horia Botez, Romania's Ambassador to Washington, its representative at the United Nations and an internationally known mathematician and futurist, died on July 11 at a hospital in Bucharest, the embassy confirmed this week. He was 54. The cause was internal hemorrhaging, the 
 Toru Kumon, who was so dismayed when his 8-year-old son had trouble with second-grade math that he developed a streamlined teaching method now used by more than 2 million students in 29 countries, died on Tuesday at a hospital near his home in Osaka, Japan. He was 81. Mr. Kumon was 
 Redfield Mason, an Indiana farm boy who helped the Navy break the Japanese military code in World War II and then won national fame when he won $100,000 on a television quiz show with an unlikely mastery of Greek and Roman mythology, died on July 9 at a nursing home in Warrenton, Va. He was
 Alexander Campbell Wylly, an art consultant and former assistant curator at the Museum of Modern Art in New York, died on Saturday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 59 years old and lived in Chevy Chase, Md. The cause was AIDS, said his cousin, Elizabeth Beuter, of F
 David G. Hays, a social scientist and early practitioner of the budding discipline of computational linguistics, died on Wednesday at White Plains Hospital. He was 66 and lived in the Inwood section of Manhattan. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. Computer-aided lin
 Jaime de Mora y Aragon, a flamboyant Spanish aristocrat whose amiable antics made him the toast of the Costa del Sol, died on Wednesday at a hospital near his home in Marbella, Spain. He was 70. His doctors said the cause was the latest of a series of a heart attacks he had suffered
 Dr. Murray S. Miron, a psychologist who advised the Federal Bureau of Investigation about the minds of criminals for two decades, died on Wednesday at Crouse Irving Memorial Hospital in Syracuse. He was 62 and lived in Syracuse. He had pancreatic cancer, the Syracuse University news
 Louis DeSario, the Staten Island representative to the New York City Board of Education and a former Superintendent of the Staten Island schools, died yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital on Staten Island. He was 64. He suffered a heart attack several months ago from which he never f
 Miklos Rozsa, whose opulent scores for some of Hollywood's most lavish epics earned him three Academy Awards, died at Good Samaritan Hospital in Los Angeles on Thursday. He was 88. He had suffered a stroke about three weeks ago and been put on life support, family members told the A
 Rick Ferrell, a member of the Baseball Hall of Fame since 1984 and the catching half of one of the game's more famous pitcher-catcher brother combinations, died on Thursday. He was 89. Ferrell, who lived in Troy, Mich., for the past 18 years, died of arrhythmia, according to a state
 Ted Hook, a perennial chorus dancer who turned into an impromptu impresario at his restaurant, Backstage, died on July 19 at his apartment in Manhattan. He was 65. A friend, Lee Doyle, said the cause was pneumonia. Until he opened Backstage on West 45th Street in 1973 for wh
 Wallace C. Steinberg, the chairman of the Healthcare Investment Corporation, the largest venture capital fund devoted to health care, died on Wednesday at his home in Rumson, N.J. He was 61. He died in his sleep, said Dr. James H. Cavanaugh, the company's president. Mr. Stei
 Don Carpenter, a novelist and sometime screenwriter whose unflinching examinations of disheveled lives won more critical acclaim than popular favor, took his life on Thursday in a tiny, cluttered apartment in Mill Valley, Calif., where he had lived, worked, raged, exulted and suffered for t
 Dr. Harry M. Zimmerman, a pioneer in the study of diseases of the nervous system in the United States and a founder of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, died on Friday at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx, where he had trained a generation of neuropathologists. Mr. Zimmerman, wh
 David Wineman, a longtime social work professor who was an expert on disturbed children and advocate of children's rights, died on Wednesday at Grace Hospital in Detroit. He was 79 and lived in Southfield, Mich. The cause of death was cancer, said his brother, Saul. Mr. Wine
 Dr. Harry M. Zimmerman, a pioneer in the study of diseases of the nervous system in the United States and a founder of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, died on Friday at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx, where he had trained a generation of neuropathologists. Dr. Zimmerman, wh
 The guitarist and singer Floyd McDaniel, best known as a member of the Five Blazes, died on July 22 in Chicago, where he lived. He was 80. The cause was cardiac failure, said Doug Engel, the promotion director of Delmark Records, for which Mr. McDaniel recorded. Mr. McDaniel
 Les Elgart, a trumpet player and leader of a big band, died on Saturday at the home of a relative in Dallas. He was 77 and lived in Dallas. The cause was a heart attack, said Lynn Elgart, the wife of his brother, Larry, a saxophonist and band leader. Les Elgart, who continue
