 Art Bauman, a dancer and choreographer who helped to found the Dance Theater Workshop, died on Wednesday at Tisch Hospital in Manhattan. He was 53 and lived in Manhattan. He died of AIDS, said William Singer, his companion. Mr. Bauman created many of his early dances for Dan
 Clarence LeRoy Holte, who assembled what was thought to be the largest private collection of books on black history and culture, died on Friday in Oakland, Calif. Mr. Holte was 85 and lived in Oakland. He died of heart failure, said his daughter, Dr. Helen Holte-Fields. In s
 Dr. Robert L. Pekarsky, a dentist and expert on dental litigation, died on Thursday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in Manhattan, his family said. He was 70 years old and lived on the Upper East Side. He died of a heart attack, said his wife, Ellen. Dr. Pekarsky,
 Ron Kostelnik, a former Green Bay Packers defensive tackle, died Friday night as he suffered a heart attack and lost control of his car on Interstate 75 in Kentucky, authorities here said. He was 53. An autopsy performed Saturday showed that Mr. Kostelnik died of the heart attack, s
 Harold Henry Beverage, a radio engineer and RCA scientist whose research advanced communications technology, died on Wednesday at the John T. Mather Hospital in Port Jefferson, L.I. He was 99 and lived in Stony Brook. Mr. Beverage held more than 40 patents in his field. He was a co-
 Harris B. Hull, a retired Air Force brigadier general who was a special assistant in five NASA administrations, died Friday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 83 and lived in Bethesda, Md. His son Robert Archer Hull said the cause of death was a heart attack. 
 J. Thompson Ruger, an executive of Sturm, Ruger & Company, a manufacturer of firearms, died on Sunday at the Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 48 and lived in Bedford, N.Y. The cause of death was leukemia, said his wife, Hedi Kravis Ruger. At the time of his de
 Neal Steinman, a lawyer and expert in public finance, died on Thursday in a Philadelphia hospital. He was 50 and lived in Philadelphia. David F. Girard-diCarlo, a colleague, said the cause of death was cancer. Mr. Steinman was a partner in the Philadelphia law firm of Blank,
 Alfred L. Pilson, retired treasurer and chief financial officer of the Simplicity Pattern Company Inc., died on Sunday in Somers, N.Y. He was 83. His family said he had been ill for a long time. Mr. Pilson was born in New York City. He graduated from New York University's Sc
 Antony J. T. Kloman, a retired artist and supporter of the arts, died Thursday at a hospital in Bradenton, Fla. He was 89 and lived in Newport, R.I. He died of pneumonia, his family said. Mr. Kloman, who was a portrait painter specializing in children, worked through Portrai
 Charles N. Breed Jr., a surgeon at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, died at his home in Manhattan on Friday. He was 78. The cause of death was cancer, his family said. Dr. Breed, an expert in breast cancer, was an early advocate of the idea that a radical mastectomy w
 Eugene Blanc Jr., who practiced law in Manhattan for 65 years, died on Monday at New York Hospital. He was 88 and lived in Manhattan. His death followed a brief illness, said Leonard Spielberg, a colleague and former partner. Mr. Blanc, a native of Manhattan, graduated from 
 J. Bradford Haley, an administrator at the Amos Tuck School of Business Administration at Dartmouth College, died Sunday at Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center in Lebanon, N.H. He was 43 and lived in Hanover, N.H. The college said the cause of death was heart failure. Mr. Hal
 John H. LaMarre, an art historian and appraiser of fine arts and antiques, died on Monday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 79 and lived in Manhattan. The cause of death was heart failure, his family said. Mr. LaMarre, a native of Boston, graduated from Columbia University and 
 Kurt Steiner, the voice of the New York Road Runners Club and a former marathon runner, died yesterday. He was 71. Fred Lebow, the president of the club, said the cause of death was a heart attack. Mr. Steiner ran in 99 marathons, including the 1972 Boston Marathon at the ag
 Michel Renault, who was one of the Paris Opera Ballet's most popular postwar stars, died on Friday in a hospital outside Paris. He was 65 and lived in Paris. A spokesman for the Opera Ballet said the cause of death was hepatitis. Mr. Renault studied with Carlotta Zambelli, A
 Paul R. Anderson, the retired president of Temple University and Chatham College, died on Sunday at his home in Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla. He was 85. The cause of death was cancer, his family said. Dr. Anderson became Temple's president in 1967 as students on campuses across th
 Richard M. Lederer Jr., the retired Village Historian of Scarsdale and an author and investment manager, died on Thursday at White Plains Hospital. He was 76 and lived in Scarsdale. His daughter, Barbara Rosin of Chappaqua, said the cause of death was heart failure. Mr. Lede
 Stanley S. Lasdon, a philanthropist and retired vice president and director of the Warner-Lambert Company, died on Sunday at his apartment in Manhattan. He was 83. His family said he died after a brief illness. Mr. Lasdon, a native of Brooklyn, earned a law degree at St. Joh
 Tom Adair, a former soloist with American Ballet Theater and a teacher and choreographer in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., died on Monday at St. Francis Hospital in Poughkeepsie. He was 57. Marsha Preiss, a friend, said the cause of death was lung cancer. Mr. Adair, who specialized in 
 William C. Sayres, a Columbia University professor who helped developing countries improve their education systems, died on Monday while flying from Cairo to Geneva for medical treatment after a heart attack. He was 65 and a resident of Bogota, N.J. A university spokesman reported h
 Akira Okaya, a physicist who worked with fiber optics and laser technology, died on Jan. 20 at Norwalk Hospital in Connecticut. He was 72 and lived in New Canaan, Conn. The cause of death was respiratory failure after a brief illness, his family said. Dr. Okaya, who was born
 Alexander Schneider, the eminent violinist, conductor and teacher who was one of the last links with the Romantic tradition and a mentor to several generations of American musicians, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 84. Frank Salomon, Mr. Schneider's manager and a cl
 Charles G. Tierney, a retired judge in the New York City and State courts, died on Tuesday at the New Rochelle Hospital Medical Center in New Rochelle. He was 86 and lived in Pelham. Justice Tierney was elected to the City Civil Court in 1961 and to the State Supreme Court in 1974. 
 Edward Myers, the director of the Nashville Ballet and a former principal dancer with the Pennsylvania Ballet, died on Monday at Vanderbilt University Medical Center in Nashville, Tenn. He was 42 and lived in Nashville. His companion, Richard Steinhart, said the cause of death was A
 Dr. Frederick H. Amendola, a retired chief of surgery at Roosevelt Hospital, died at his home in Manhattan on Friday. He was 89. Dr. Amendola, a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of the City University of New York, received his medical degree from Cornell University Medical College and joined
 John E. Berry, a former executive director of the New York State Bar Association, died on Jan. 25 at the Shrewsbury Nursing Home in Shrewsbury, Mass. He was 78. His family said he died of heart failure. Mr. Berry worked at the bar association's headquarters in Albany for 30 
 Lawton Miller Calhoun, a business executive and banker in Savannah, Ga., died Tuesday at Memorial Medical Center in Savannah. He was 82. Mr. Calhoun, a native of Macon, Ga., graduated from Washington and Lee University and joined the Savannah Sugar Refining Company in 1940. 
 William Plummer Drake, a retired Philadelphia industrialist, died Jan. 22 at his home in Devon, Pa. He was 80. Mr. Drake was associated with the Pennwalt Corporation for 49 years. He started out as a summer trainee in 1934 when it was the Pennsylvania Salt Manufacturing Company. In 
 Albert Russel Erskine Jr., a retired Random House editor who worked with James A. Michener, William Faulkner, John O'Hara and Robert Penn Warren, died on Wednesday at Norwalk Hospital in Norwalk, Conn. He was 81 and lived in Westport, Conn. His family said he had had a long illness.
 Earl James McGrath, a Commissioner of Education under two Presidents, died on Jan. 14 in Tucson, Ariz. He was 90. Dr. McGrath's death was reported to The New York Times yesterday by Dr. Robert S. Webber, a friend of Dr. McGrath's and the president of Western International University
 Edward Myers, the director of the Nashville Ballet and a former principal dancer with the Pennsylvania Ballet, died on Monday at Vanderbilt University Medical Center in Nashville, Tenn. He was 42 and lived in Nashville. His companion, Richard Steinhart, said the cause of death was A
 Dr. Frederick H. Amendola, a retired chief of surgery at Roosevelt Hospital, died at his home in Manhattan on Friday. He was 89. Dr. Amendola, a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of the City University of New York, received his medical degree from Cornell University Medical College and joined
 Fritz Henle, a prolific freelance photographer renowned for his stylish travel pictures, died on Sunday at Teachers Hospital in San Juan, P.R. He was 83 and lived in St. Croix, V.I. His son, Martin, said the cause of death was heart failure. Mr. Henle was born in Dortmund, G
 Msgr. Joseph P. Moore, a priest of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York and longtime chaplain at the United States Military Academy, died on Wednesday at the residence of St. Augustine's Rectory in Ossining, N.Y. He was 87. Msgr. Robert F. McCormick, the pastor of St. Augustin
 Oscar Dombrow, a retired New York City educator who developed innovative school programs, died on Tuesday at Boca Raton Community Hospital in Florida. He was 86 and lived in Boca Raton and Westport, Conn. Pneumonia was the cause of death, his family said. His career with the
 George L. Monahan Jr., a former head of the "Star Wars" missile-defense program and a vice president of the Loral Corporation, died Thursday in San Jose, Calif., during a business trip. He was 59 and lived in Falls Church, Va. The cause of death was a heart attack, said Loral, a mil
 Hans Jacobson, a Wall Street specialist who traded the bonds of bankrupt railroads, died on Thursday in Cambridge, England. He lived in Basking Ridge, N.J., and was 88. The cause was pancreatic cancer, for which he was being treated at a Cambridge hospital, his family said. 
 Hans Jonas, who fled Nazi Germany and became an influential philosopher, died yesterday at his home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 89. Professor Jonas drew wide attention in 1964 when he repudiated an early mentor, the German thinker Martin Heidegger, for being pro-Hitler in the Nazi 
 Joseph L. Mankiewicz, a writer, director and producer who was one of Hollywood's most literate and intelligent film makers, died yesterday at Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount Kisco, N.Y. He was 83 and lived in Bedford, N.Y. Robert Vincent, a friend of the family, said the caus
 Kenneth H. Lundmark, the retired chief lawyer of Conrail, died on Thursday at a nursing home in Nashua, N.H., at the age of 76. He was a resident of Stamford, Conn. His family said heart failure was the cause. Mr. Lundmark served as Conrail's corporate counsel. Before that h
 Philip J. Levens, a retired vice president of the American Broadcasting Companies, died on Tuesday at Massapequa (L.I.) General Hospital. A Massapequa resident, he was 74. His family said the cause was heart failure. A native of New York City, Mr. Levens received an engineer
 Arthur Ashe, a tennis champion who spent his years in the sport fighting discrimination and then spent the final year of his life seeking to broaden public awareness on the subject of AIDS, died yesterday. He was 49. A New York Hospital administrator, Judith Lilavois, said Ashe died
 Arthur R. Weckel, who was a test engineer and a vice president at the former Sperry Gyroscope Company, died on Jan. 27 at Pennswood Village, a retirement community in Newtown, Pa. He was 87 and a former resident of Yardley, Pa. His death was announced by the Charles F. Swartz Funera
 Brad Phillips, a retired radio news anchor at WINS in New York City and a leader in the national radio and television union, died on Thursday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 74 and lived in Manhattan. He had a short illness, his family said. Mr. Phillips w
 George W. Dudley Jr., an artist who founded a greeting card company and was active in gay and AIDS causes, died on Wednesday at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 41 and resided in Manhattan. He died of complications of AIDS, said Norbert Sinski, his companion. Mr. 
 Gino Bechi, an opera baritone who became a popular leading man in Italian musical films in the late 1940's, died on Tuesday at his home in Florence, Italy. He was 79. His daughter, Rosella, said his death occurred in his sleep. Mr. Bechi sang at La Scala in the late 1940's a
 Heinz H. Bender, the pastry chef to three Presidents, died Thursday at his home on Longboat Key, outside Sarasota. He was 83. Before retiring in 1979, Mr. Bender worked for 11 years in the White House, baking cakes and cookies for Presidents Richard M. Nixon, Gerald R. Ford and Jimm
 Otto Fenn, a fashion photographer and landmarks preservationist in Sag Harbor, L.I., died on Friday at his home there. He was 79. Heart failure was the cause of death, said John Krug, his companion for 34 years. Mr. Fenn photographed fashions, decorations and food for Harper
 William Pene du Bois, the author and illustrator of popular children's books known for both whimsy and serious themes, died on Friday at a hospital in Nice, France, where he lived. He was 76. His death came after a stroke, his family said. Mr. du Bois also illustrated other 
 Arthur Ashe, a tennis champion who spent his years in the sport fighting discrimination and then spent the final year of his life seeking to broaden public awareness on the subject of AIDS, died Saturday. He was 49. A New York Hospital administrator, Judith Lilavois, said Ashe died 
 Brad Phillips, a retired radio news anchor at WINS in New York City and a leader in the national radio and television union, died on Thursday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 74 and lived in Manhattan. He had a short illness, his family said. Mr. Phillips w
 George W. Dudley Jr., an artist who founded a greeting card company and was active in gay and AIDS causes, died on Wednesday at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 41 and resided in Manhattan. He died of complications of AIDS, said Norbert Sinski, his companion. Mr. 
 Marvin Rushkoff, a health-care consultant and former hospital administrator, died on Thursday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 63. The cause of death was cancer, said his son, Bennett. Mr. Rushkoff was chief financial officer of the Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan from 
 The Rev. Dr. Robert D. Hershey, pastor of the Lutheran Church of the Holy Trinity in Manhattan for 21 years until his retirement in 1974, died Saturday evening at his home near Reading, Pa. He was 83. He had been ill with cancer, his family said. Dr. Hershey was most widely 
 Arthur Mann, a chronicler of American reform politics, died Sunday at the University of Chicago's Bernard Mitchell Hospital. A resident of Hyde Park, Ill., he was 71. His family said his death came after a long illness. Dr. Mann was the emeritus Preston and Sterling Morton P
 Eliot Janeway, the political economist and author whose career spanned seven decades, died yesterday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 80. Mr. Janeway had been in declining health for some years, suffering from diabetes and heart problems, his son Michael 
 Erling Dekke Naess, a former chairman of the Anglo-Norness Shipping Company, a tanker fleet, died Sunday at his home in Bermuda. He was 91. His son Michael said Mr. Naess died of complications from kidney failure. Mr. Naess established Anglo-Norness in Bermuda in 1959, build
 Leo Manso, an abstract painter and collagist, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 78 and also kept a home in Provincetown, Mass. His wife, Blanche, said the cause was heart failure. Mr. Manso was widely regarded as a leading influence on the art of collage.  Robe
 The Rev. Dr. Robert D. Hershey, pastor of the Lutheran Church of the Holy Trinity in Manhattan for 21 years until his retirement in 1974, died Saturday evening at his home near Reading, Pa. He was 83. He had been ill with cancer, his family said. Dr. Hershey was most widely 
 Stephen Augustine, a vice president of Bloomingdale's, died on Friday at New York University Hospital. He was 35 and lived in New York City. Friends said the cause was heart failure. Mr. Augustine had worked his way up in the clothing store business, beginning as a trainee a
 Donald Lloyd Miller, the artist whose mural dominates the main lobby of the Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial Library in Washington, died on Sunday at Mountainside Hospital in Montclair, N.J. He was 69 and had lived in Montclair since he was a child. The cause was a heart attack, his 
 Lieut. Gen. Elwood Richard Quesada, retired, a World War II fighter pilot who became the first head of the Federal Aviation Administration, died yesterday at Jupiter Hospital in Jupiter, Fla. He was 88 and lived in Hobe Sound, Fla. His family said he died of heart failure. G
 Harold Taylor, an innovative educator who became a college president at 30 and said, "What is wrong with a great deal of higher education in America is that it is simply boring," died yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 78. His family attribut
 William (Slew) Hester, the gruff-drawling tennis official who almost singlehandedly wrenched the United States Open from its cramped roots in Forest Hills and transplanted it to a sprawling new National Tennis Center in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, died Monday night at his home in Jackson,
 Ferdinand K. Platzer, a chef and restaurateur in New York and New Jersey, died yesterday at his home in Elberon, N.J., at the age of 68. His family said cancer was the cause. Mr. Platzer, known as Fred, opened several major Manhattan restaurants in the 1960's and 1970's as t
 Howard Osborne, a former sales executive in the fashion industry, died on Sunday at the Danbury Hospital in Danbury, Conn., where he lived. He was 47. His family said he had been ill for a long time. Mr. Osborne was the national sales director for the Carolyn Roehm company f
 Dr. Joseph P. Donnelly, a former medical director of the Margaret Hague Maternity Hospital in Jersey City and past president of New Jersey Blue Shield, died on Tuesday at Christ Hospital in Jersey City. He was 86. His family said his death followed a long illness. He was bor
 Ora Smith, for many years the world's leading expert on potatoes, died on Feb. 4 at a nursing home in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 92. His family said the cause was pneumonia. Dr. Smith's technical innovations helped to make possible the mass production of potato chips and frozen fre
 Paifong Robert Cheng, a former Foreign Service Officer of the Nationalist Chinese Government, died on Friday at his home in Queens. He was 93. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his family said. A native of Guangzhou, Mr. Cheng attended Canton College and studied English at Qu
 Howard N. Math, a retired New York City manufacturer, died on Wednesday at Jupiter Hospital in Florida. He was 72 and was a resident of Jupiter and of Manhasset, L.I. . The cause of death was cancer, his family said. Mr. Math, who was born in the Bronx, went into business wi
 Msgr. Marion J. Reinhardt, an expert on Roman Catholic canon law who helped to formulate new standards for marriage annulment, died on Wednesday at the North Shore Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 77 and lived in Hicksville, L.I. Heart failure was the cause of death, a spokeswoman
 Otto R. Salassi, who wrote novels for young readers, died on Wednesday at his home in Fayetteville, Ark. He was 53. His wife, Margaret, said the cause was liver disease. Mr. Salassi's novel "Jimmy D., Sidewinder, and Me" (Greenwillow, 1987), was set in smoke-filled pool hall
 Philip Lawrence Birrell Iglehart, an investor and an accomplished polo player, died on Tuesday at Good Samaritan Hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. A resident of nearby Lakewood, he was 80. His family said he died after a brief illness. Born in Vina del Mar, Chile, Mr. Igleha
 Angelo Fosco, the general president of the Laborers' International Union of North America, died Thursday at Memorial Hospital in Hollywood, Fla., where he had a winter home. He was 71 and lived in Chicago. The union said he died after a brief illness. Mr. Fosco, who was born
 Dr. Howard A. Paul, developer of a robotic surgical device tested on human patients in California, died on Wednesday at Stanford University Hospital. He was 59 and lived in Loomis, Calif. The cause of death was leukemia, said Integrated Surgical Systems of Sacramento, Calif. Dr. Pau
 Edward F. Conley, a longtime correspondent and bureau chief for the Voice of America, died on Thursday in George Washington University Hospital in Washington. He was 60 and lived in Tokyo. The cause was a brain tumor, his family said. In his 32 years at the Voice of America,
 George B. Allen, the retired head of the association representing nonprofit hospitals and nursing homes in New York State, died on Thursday at his home in Clifton Park, N.Y. He was 60. His death followed a long respiratory illness, said a spokeswoman for the Hospital Association of 
 Scott Meredith, the literary agent who represented Norman Mailer and who introduced the concept of the book auction to publishing, died on Thursday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 69 and lived in Kings Point, L.I. The cause of death was cancer, his wife,
 Dr. Albert D. Anderson, who became a doctor to disabled patients and an expert on rehabilitation through his own struggle with a rare disease, died Monday at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 65 and lived in the Bronx. He had been in a coma since being stricken by 
 John F. McKean, a tenant organizer and community leader, died Friday night at his home in Manhattan. He was 85 years old. The cause of death was a heart attack, said his nephew, Kevin McKean. Mr. McKean, a former real estate executive, led fellow tenants in the Tudor City ap
 Robert W. Holley, a biologist who won the Nobel Prize for unraveling the genetic code of ribonucleic acid, or RNA, died Thursday at his home in Los Gatos, Calif. He was 71. The cause of death was lung cancer, said the Salk Institute for Biological Studies in La Jolla, Calif., where 
 Dr. Albert D. Anderson, who became a doctor to disabled patients and an expert on rehabilitation through his own struggle with a rare disease, died Monday at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 65 and lived in the Bronx. He had been in a coma since being stricken by 
 Eleazar Lipsky, a novelist and lawyer who was prominent in Jewish affairs, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 81 and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. His son Michael said the cause was leukemia. A 100-page manuscript by Mr. Lipsky was the basis of the 1
 John F. McKean, a tenant organizer and community leader, died on Friday night at his home in Manhattan. He was 85 years old. The cause of death was a heart attack, said his nephew, Kevin McKean. Mr. McKean, a former real-estate executive, led fellow tenants in the Tudor City
 Justice Morris L. Schwalb, a retired State Supreme Court judge whose complaining about prostitutes in midtown Manhattan drew national attention in 1971 and was followed by a police crackdown on them, died on Saturday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Yonkers. He was 82 and lived on the Upper West
 George A. Stephen, who invented the Weber Kettle, a domed grill that came to be widely used by American barbecue-lovers, died Thursday at his home in Kildeer, Ill. He was 71. The cause of death was cancer, said Lori Sitta, an employee of the Weber-Stephen Product Company, which manu
 Lane W. Adams, the former executive vice president of the American Cancer Society, died yesterday at New York Hospital. He was 77 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause of death was a cerebral hemorrhage that he suffered earlier this month at the hospital, said Mic
 Simon R. Bregman, a partner from 1945 to 1990 in Bregman & Stolz, a firm that built shopping centers and buildings in the Bronx and Manhattan, died on Friday at Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 94 and lived at the Hebrew Home for the Aged in the Bronx. The cause of death w
 Lester Wilson, a choreographer, director and dancer, died on Sunday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 51. His family said the cause was a heart attack. Mr. Wilson is best known for his choreography for "Saturday Night Fever," the 1977 film starring John Travolta. He also wo
 Richard S. Salant, who led CBS News for most of the 1960's and 70's during the tumultuous Vietnam and Watergate eras, died yesterday while speaking to a group in Southport, Conn. He was 78 and lived in New Canaan, Conn. CBS said he suffered heart failure while giving a talk on news 
 Dr. Irving W. Kramer, a retired physician and hospital administrator, died on Sunday at his winter home in Bermuda Dunes, Calif. He was 82 and also lived in Floral Park, Queens. The cause of death was a stroke, his family said. Dr. Kramer practiced for 40 years as a family p
 Joe Jones, an artist, musician and inventor of music machines and mechanical orchestras, died on Feb. 9 at his home in Wiesbaden-Erbenheim, Germany. He was 58. The cause was heart failure, said Geoffrey Hendricks, a friend and colleague, who informed The Times of his death yesterday
 Raoul Hague, an American sculptor whose massive carved wood sculptures often resembled abstract versions of the tree trunks they once were, died yesterday at his home in Woodstock, N.Y. He was 88. The cause was heart failure, said Jill Weinberg of Lennon, Weinberg Inc., the Manhatta
 Richard Colabella, a leader in developing mental health services in the Roman Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn, died on Monday at Mercy Hospital in Rockville Centre, L.I. He was 56 and lived in Franklin Square, L.I. He had cancer, said Thomas A. DeStefano, executive director of Catholic
 Vincent S. Jones, a retired newspaper executive and leader in news organizations, died on Monday at Genesee Hospital in Rochester, where he lived. He was 86. The cause of death was cancer, his family said. Mr. Jones was the former vice president and executive editor of the G
 Walter Teller, the author and editor of books on American landscape and literature, died yesterday at a hospital in Princeton, N.J., where he lived. He was 82. The cause was cancer, said his son, Walter S. Teller of Los Angeles. Mr. Teller was best known for three personal n
 A. Pharo Gagge, a biophysicist who was a leader in studying the interaction of human body temperature with the environment, died on Saturday at his home in Branford, Conn. He was 85. The cause of death was heart failure, his family said. His work had wide applications for he
 Irwin M. Altman, the superintendent of the school district that for years has ranked first in reading and mathematics scores in New York City, died on Wednesday at Montefiore Hospital in the Bronx. He was 66 and a resident of the Bronx. The cause of death was cancer, a school distri
 Joseph H. Oyugi, an official at the United Nations, died on Feb. 8 at his home in Queens. He was 58. The cause of death was cardiac arrest, his family said. Mr. Oyugi had served at the United Nations since 1978, first as the chief of the Public Administration Systems and Tra
 Dr. Mark Ellingson, educator and president of Rochester Institute of Technology for 33 years, died at his home in Rochester on Feb. 12. He was 88. Complications from a stroke caused his death, William McKee, the spokesman for the institute, said. During Dr. Ellingson's lengt
 Robert B. Lisle, a corporate and labor lawyer, died on Tuesday at his home in Greenvale, L.I. He was 80. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Elizabeth. At his death, Mr. Lisle was partner emeritus of Cullen & Dykman, a Brooklyn law firm with which he was affiliated for 57 y
 Arthur E. Palmer, a former New York City Transportation Administrator and a retired environmental lawyer and consultant, died yesterday at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 83 and lived in Manhattan. He died of pneumonia and heart failure, his family said. Mayor John 
 Bernard T. Feld, a physicist who helped Enrico Fermi develop the atomic bomb but then became so horrified by its destructive power that he spent much of his life working to end the arms race, died yesterday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 73. He had lymphoma, said his wife, Ellen Ba
 Frank W. Mendyk Jr., a former New York City Police Department inspector, died on Thursday at Long Island Jewish Hospital in New Hyde Park. He was 63 and lived in Albertson, L.I. He had melanoma, said a son, Robert. Mr. Mendyk was born in Ridgewood, Queens, and served in the 
 Gordon Bradford, a banker who specialized in helping African governments with their economies, died on Wednesday in Kampala, Uganda. He was 68 and lived in Manhattan and Saugerties, N.Y. He had a heart attack while on a consulting assignment for the State Department, said John Charl
 Marshall S. Carter, who held high posts in the United States military, diplomatic corps and intelligence agencies, died Thursday at his home in Colorado Springs. He was 83. His family said the cause of death was cancer. President John F. Kennedy appointed Lieutenant General 
 David L. Bazelon, who as a Federal appeals court judge for three decades wrote landmark opinions extending the rights of the individual and expanding the rights of criminal defendants, died on Friday at his home in Washington. He was 83. Judge Bazelon stepped down from the United St
 Gerhard A. Gesell, a Federal judge who presided over momentous cases in the Watergate scandals, the release of the secret Pentagon Papers, the Iran-contra affair and the legalization of abortion, died on Friday at his home in Washington. He was 82. The cause of death was liver cance
 Ferruccio Lamborghini, who founded the industrial company that vied with Ferrari and Maserati to produce the most stylish of Italian sports cars, died on Saturday in Silvestrini Hospital in Perugia, the ANSA news agency reported. He was 76. Mr. Lamborghini suffered a heart attack on
 Harvey Kurtzman, a prominent cartoonist and historian of pop culture who helped found Mad magazine and was also a guiding force in several other satirical magazines, died yesterday at his home in Mount Vernon, N.Y. He was 68. Byron Preiss, his publisher, said he died from complicati
 Lee Polk, a television producer, director and writer who specialized largely in programs for children, died on Friday at New York University Medical Center. He was 69 and lived in Manhattan. His daughter Joanne Polk said the cause was leukemia. At his death, Mr. Polk was the
 Ralph S. Stillman, the president of the Grace National Bank of New York from 1954 to 1965, died on Thursday at New York Hospital. He was 86 and lived in Pawling, N.Y. The cause of death was a heart attack, said his wife, the former Eugenia Alcaine. After the Grace National B
 Ted Haworth, who was the art director of many films, including "Sayonara," for which he won an Academy Award, died on Thursday at the Utah Valley Regional Hospital in Provo, Utah. He was 75 and lived in Sundance, Utah. His son, Sean, said Mr. Haworth (the name is pronounced HAW-wort
 Alvin Schonfeld, a retired Wall Street executive, died yesterday at the Humana Hospital in Phoenix. He was 74 and lived in Phoenix. His son, Robert, said the cause was heart failure. Mr. Schonfeld became the managing partner of H. Hentz & Company, a diversified securities bu
 George Lovi, a writer and instructor on astronomy who was widely known in that field, died on Thursday at St. Peter's Medical Center in New Brunswick, N.J. He was 53 and lived in Lakewood, N.J. The cause of death was cancer of the liver, said his sister, Jane Goldstein. At h
 Harold Barlow, a songwriter and consultant on music plagiarism, died on Feb. 15 at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 77 and lived in Douglaston, Queens. The cause was cardiopulmonary arrest brought on by sepsis, said his son, Steven, of Fresh Meadows, Queens.
 Harvey Kurtzman, a cartoonist and a pop-culture historian who founded and created Mad magazine and was a guiding force in several other satirical magazines, died on Sunday at his home in Mount Vernon, N.Y. He was 68. Byron Preiss, his publisher at Visual Publications Inc., in New Yo
 Jean Adrien Francois Lecanuet, a prominent centrist politician who ran against President Charles de Gaulle in 1965 and forced him into a runoff, died early today at his home in Neuilly-sur-Seine, near Paris. He was 72. His colleagues said he had been fighting cancer for several year
 Kenneth Gerald Peters, former chairman and president of Austin Nichols & Company, importers and distributors of wines and liquors, died on Saturday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 78 and lived in Manhasset. The cause of death was a heart attack following
 Robert Rafsky, a public relations executive and advocate for people with AIDS, who confronted Bill Clinton during the presidential campaign, died Saturday at New York University Medical Center. He was 47 and lived in Brooklyn. The cause of death was AIDS, said his former wife, Barba
 Sir Dick White, the former Director General of two British intelligence agencies, M.I.5 and M.I.6, has died at his home in the Sussex region of southern England, The Associated Press yesterday quoted his family as saying. He was 87. His family said that Sir Dick, who had been living
 Alexander Hehmeyer, who served as legal counsel to Time Inc., the United States Government and three generations of the Marshall Field family, died on Feb. 16 at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. He was 82 and lived in Chicago. He died of a heart attack, said Virginia Butts
 Alvin Schonfeld, a retired Wall Street executive, died on Monday at the Humana Hospital in Phoenix. He was 74 and lived in Phoenix. His son, Robert, said the cause was heart failure. Mr. Schonfeld became the managing partner of H. Hentz & Company, a diversified securities bu
 Morris Krugman, who helped develop psychological services in New York City's public schools, died on Monday at his home in Tompkins Cove, N.Y. He was 94. Dr. Krugman, who started as a chemistry teacher, became a clinical psychologist and rose to become the chief psychologist of the 
 George Lovi, a writer and instructor on astronomy who was widely known in that field, died on Thursday at St. Peter's Medical Center in New Brunswick, N.J. He was 53 and lived in Lakewood, N.J. The cause of death was cancer of the liver, said his sister, Jane Goldstein. At h
 Gordon de Lima Hamilton, a coach and teacher, died on Feb. 16 at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx. He was 28 and lived in Manhattan. His mother, Jean Hamilton, said the cause was Hodgkin's disease. Mr. Hamilton was the lacrosse coach at the Dalton School from March 199
 Dr. Howard Mayer Brown, a distinguished scholar of Renaissance music and a professor of music at the University of Chicago, died on Sunday in Venice. He was 62. A spokesman for the university said the cause was a heart attack. Dr. Brown had been in Europe to teach at the University 
 John Joseph Walsh, the founder of Black Swan Books, a publisher of important works on literary analysis and art, died on Monday at his home in Redding Ridge, Conn. He was 49. His wife, Patricia, said the cause was cancer. Mr. Walsh graduated from Manhattan College in Riverda
 William C. Fitts Jr., a CBS executive in charge of employee relations for two decades and a lawyer for the Tennessee Valley Authority in the 1930's, died on Sunday in the Hospital of St. Raphael in New Haven after a brief illness. He was 87 and lived for the last three years in Guilford, Co
 Arnold E. Beermann, a retired advertising executive for The New York Times, died on Monday at St. Francis Hospital in Roslyn, L.I. He was 68 and lived in Queens. The cause of death was non-Hodgkins lymphoma, his family said. Mr. Beermann joined The New York Times in 1946 and
 Fred Norman, an arranger who worked with major jazz orchestras and vocalists, died on Friday at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 82. His niece Ruby Johnson said the cause was pneumonia. Mr. Norman was born in Leesburg, Fla. He began his career in 1932 as a trombonist
 George M. How, an architect who helped to design the new NASA headquarters in Washington, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 35. The cause was AIDS, said his companion, Oren Makov. Mr. How was a senior designer at the firm of Kohn Pederson Fox Associates in Manh
 Gerard P. Meyer, a poet, author, editor, teacher and book collector, died on Tuesday at the Glengariff nursing home in Glen Cove, L.I. He was 83 and lived in Greenvale, L.I. For many years, Mr. Meyer wrote scripts for educational radio and television programs for students on subject
 Malcolm Allen, a general manager and company manager for dozens of Broadway and Off Broadway productions including "A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum" and "My Fair Lady," died on Monday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. He was 57. The cause of death was lung cancer,
 Morgan S. Smith, who photographed American black leaders and celebrities and the life and culture of Harlem, died on Feb. 17 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 83 and lived in Manhattan. The cause of death was cancer, his family said. Mr. Morgan bec
 Robert Tompkins Handville, a freelance artist who designed postage stamps and covers for Sports Illustrated and other magazines, died on Monday at Barnstable County Hospital in Pocasset, Mass. He was 68 and lived in North Eastham, Mass. He had Parkinson's disease, his family said.  
 Samuel Zuckerberg, a manufacturer in Manhattan's garment district who led fund-raising campaigns for Jewish charities, died on Tuesday at Long Island Jewish Hospital in New Hyde Park. He was 82. He had a heart attack at his home in Flushing, Queens, said his son, Harvey. Mr.
 William H. Kammerer, a physician and professor who was an expert in rheumatology, died on Feb. 17 at St. Vincent's Hospital in Indianapolis. He was 80 and lived in Culver, Ind. The cause of death was cancer, his family said. Dr. Kammerer, who practiced internal medicine for 
 Archbishop George D. Browne, the leader of the Episcopal archdiocese embracing six West African nations, died on Feb. 14. He was 59. Archbishop Browne, a resident of Monrovia, Liberia, died in a hospital in Milwaukee, where he had gone to visit relatives and for medical care.       
 Arthur J. Santry Jr., a retired business executive and yachtsman, died on Wednesday at a hospital in his hometown, Greenwich, Conn. He was 74. The cause of death was cancer, his family said. Mr. Santry was the president and later chairman of Combustion Engineering Inc. The c
 Arthur Markewich, a retired Justice of the Appellate Division of the New York State Supreme Court, died on Wednesday at the Jewish Home and Hospital for the Aged on West 106th Street. He was 86 and a longtime resident of the Upper West Side. His son Daniel said that the cause of dea
 Benjamin B. Rosenberg, an accountant who worked for District Attorney Frank S. Hogan of Manhattan and later for the New York State Harness Racing Commission, died on Friday at his home in Deerfield Beach, Fla. He was 79. Mr. Rosenberg had suffered from a heart condition and diabetes
 Charles H. Callison, former executive vice president of the National Audubon Society and a major figure in the conservation movement, died on Tuesday at University Hospital in Columbia, Mo. He was 79 and lived in Jefferson City, Mo. His wife, Amy, said the cause was complications fo
 Thomas F. X. Mullarkey, a partner at Lazard Freres & Company, former chairman of the board of Fordham University and a philanthropist, died yesterday at his home in Locust Valley, L.I. He was 59. The cause of death was brain cancer, said Thomas Wise, a spokesman for Lazard Freres.  
 Toy Talmadge Caldwell Jr., a founding member of the Marshall Tucker Band, died in his sleep on Wednesday at his home in Moore, S.C. He was 45. The Marshall Tucker Band, named after the piano tuner who owned the band's rehearsal hall, made 14 albums of easygoing Southern rock from 19
 Beaumont Newhall, a pioneering historian of photography and an ardent and articulate advocate of the medium, died yesterday at his home in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 84. Mr. Newhall's companion, Christi Newhall, his former wife, said the cause was complications from a stroke. It 
 Ben G. Elliott, a professor of engineering at the University of Wisconsin who conducted groundbreaking research on the automobile engine in the early years of this century, died Wednesday at St. Marys Hospital in Madison, Wis. He was 104 and lived in Madison. He had pneumonia, said 
 Dr. George N. Marshall, a retired leader in the Unitarian Universalist Association, died on Feb. 15 after collapsing while walking his dog near his home in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 77. He died as a result of heart failure, the church headquarters said. From 1960 to 1985 Dr. 
 Robert Triffin, the Belgian-born Yale economist who championed European unity for much of his life and correctly foresaw the demise of the Bretton Woods international monetary system, died on Tuesday in Ostend, Belgium. He was 81. He suffered from emphysema, his son Nicholas said.  
 Wilmer C. Ames Jr., a writer and the founder and editor of a national magazine, died on Feb. 16 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 43 and lived in Manhattan. The cause of death was a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Ames was the editor in chief of Emerge
 Dominick Albano, a senior vice president of the United States Trust Company of New York, died on Wednesday at Winthrop-University Hospital in Mineola, L.I. He was 62. Mr. Albano was a senior portfolio manager in the personal investment division. He joined the firm in 1948 as a messe
 Fletcher Knebel, co-author of the best-selling cold war novel "Seven Days in May" and a retired syndicated newspaper columnist, died on Friday at his home in Honolulu at the age of 81. Mr. Knebel, who as a member of the Hemlock Society had supported a right to suicide, took his own 
 Sydney L. Whitman, the owner of a large kosher catering house in Brooklyn, died on Monday at Englewood Hospital in Englewood, N.J. He was 84 and lived in Fort Lee, N.J. He had bone cancer, said Stephen B. Wilson, his son-in-law. Mr. Whitman was born and raised on the Lower E
