 Louis Auslander, distinguished professor of mathematics and computer science at the Graduate School and University Center of the City University of New York, died Tuesday at United Hospital in Port Chester, N.Y. He was 68 and lived in nearby Pelham Manor. The cause was a cerebral he
 Louis A. Botto, the founder and artistic director of Chanticleer, an a cappella men's choir, died on Tuesday at his home in San Francisco. He was 45. Agnes Bruneau, the press representative for the choir, said the cause was AIDS. Mr. Botto, a tenor, formed Chanticleer in 197
 Paul Otto Heyer, a professor and former president of the New York School of Interior Design, died on Feb. 22 at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 60 and lived on the Upper West Side, where he also had an architectural office. The cause was cancer, his family said.     
 Dr. William R. Maples, a leading forensic anthropologist who sought to identify the skeletal remains of prominent figures dating back as far as the 1500's and at times sought to ascertain the circumstances of mysterious deaths, died on Thursday at his home in Gainesville, Fla. He was 59.   
 Adm. Ephraim Paul Holmes, who rose to become the fifth-highest-ranking naval officer, died on Sunday at his home in Williamsburg, Va. He was 88. He retired in 1970 as Commander in Chief, United States Atlantic Fleet, the 12th naval officer to hold the position. He reached it
 C. Brooks Peters, who covered the outbreak of World War II from Berlin for The New York Times, died on Thursday at his apartment on the Upper West Side. He was 84. Mr. Peters covered the early days of the war with a vivid style, producing some of the coverage that helped The Times w
 Dr. Richard Henry Logsdon, a retired educator and librarian at Columbia University and the City University of New York, died Feb. 22 at a nursing home in Great Barrington, Mass. He was 84 and had homes in South Egremont, Mass., and Manhattan. The family said he had suffered a brief illness.
 Eric Fenby, a British musician and musicologist who was a transcriber for the British composer Frederick Delius, died on Feb. 18 in Scarborough, England, where he lived. He was 90. Mr. Fenby, a native of Scarborough, was originally trained as an organist and went on to become a comp
 Frank Heller, a lawyer who was long active with Jewish educational and service organizations, died on Feb. 16 at White Plains Hospital. He was 88 and lived in White Plains. He practiced law from 1937 up to a week before his death and was a partner in the firm Peck & Heller in Manhat
 Henry B. Guthrie, who worked as a lawyer for the wealthy and prominent and who devoted much of his time to providing better hospital care, enriched science education and social services for fatherless youths, died on Feb. 12 at his home in Bedford, Westchester County. Mr. Guthrie, w
 John S. Minary, who turned a chance wartime encounter in London into a lifelong job as William S. Paley's personal financial adviser, died Feb. 18 at his home in Charlottesville, Va. He was 88. A banker's son from Benton Harbor, Mich., Mr. Minary graduated from Dartmouth College and
 Sidney Squire, whose law career in New York City covered more than 60 years, including 21 as a judge, died on Feb. 12 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. The cause was pancreatic cancer, family members said. He was 90 and lived in Manhattan. As a member of the New York State 
 Raymond LambertRaymond Lambert, a Swiss mountaineer who came within 800 vertical feet of immortality in 1952 but had to console himself ever after with the knowledge that he had paved the way for Sir Edmund Hillary's conquest of Mount Everest a year later, died on Monday at a hospital near 
 Charles E. Dederich, a reformed alcoholic who founded Synanon, the drug rehabilitation program that won widespread acclaim and amassed great wealth before it became associated with violence, died on Friday in Kaweah Delta Hospital in Visalia, Calif. Mr. Dederich, who lived in Visalia, was 8
 Robert H. Paschal, the Atlanta restaurateur and entrepreneur whose perfectly seasoned fried chicken sustained the civil rights movement, died on Thursday at his home here. He was 88. His younger brother, James, his partner for 50 years in a business that started as a lunch counter a
 Stanislav S. Shatalin, the Soviet economist who during the perestroika era was instrumental in promoting an economic plan to dismantle Communism, died today. He was 62. The Russian Academy of Sciences announced his death but did not disclose the cause. He had been in and out of hosp
 Kingsley Davis, the sociologist and demographics expert who coined the term ''zero population growth,'' argued passionately for a wide range of measures to bring it about and then, paradoxically, warned of the dangers of low birthrates, died on Feb. 27 at his home in Stanford, Calif. He was
 Dr. Robert H. Dicke, who predicted the discovery of the Big Bang echo, conducted classic experiments in gravity and for a time was a chief challenger to Einstein's general theory of relativity, died yesterday at his home in Princeton, N.J., after a long illness. He was 80. The cause
 Jascha Brodsky, a violinist who performed as a member of the Curtis String Quartet for more than 50 years and was renowned as a teacher, died on Monday at the Palm Garden Nursing Home in Ocala, Fla. He was 90. Mr. Brodsky was born in Kharkov, Ukraine, in 1907 and was the son of a vi
 Miladin Zivotic, a leading dissident during the Communist era in Yugoslavia and one of the most prominent domestic critics of Serbian involvement in the Balkan wars, died at his home in Belgrade on Feb. 26. He was 66. The cause of death was a heart attack, his family said. M
 Roger Brown, the former high school star from Brooklyn who was denied a chance to compete in college or in the National Basketball Association but who played eight sterling seasons for the Indiana Pacers of the American Basketball Association, died on Tuesday at the home of a friend in Indi
 Stanley Fink, a Brooklyn Democrat who helped strengthen the power of the New York State Legislature during his term as Assembly Speaker in the post-Rockefeller era, died Tuesday night at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 61 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was heart 
 Wayne David Fischer, a New York City high school teacher who publicly disclosed his infection with the AIDS virus and then chronicled the progress of the illness in a weekly television program, died of the disease on Sunday at Cabrini Medical Center. He was 39 and lived in Manhattan.       
 Cheddi B. Jagan, the firebrand who led Guyana to independence and was one of the Caribbean's most contentious political leaders for half a century, died yesterday in Washington, where he had been hospitalized after a heart attack. He was 78. Dr. Jagan had undergone heart surgery at 
 Christopher Boatwright, a principal dancer with the Stuttgart Ballet, the San Francisco Ballet and the Lines Contemporary Ballet, died on Sunday at the Laguna Honda Hospital in San Francisco. Mr. Boatwright was 42 and lived in San Francisco. The cause was AIDS, said a Lines spokeswo
 Melvin G. Marcus, a specialist in alpine and polar geography who headed several national commissions to assess geographic education, died on Sunday while on a field trip in the snow-covered mountains near Silverton, Colo. He was 67 and lived in Tempe, Ariz., where he was a geography profess
 Michael Manley, who dominated Jamaican politics for a generation and became one of the most eloquent spokesmen for third-world causes, died Thursday night at his home outside Kingston. He was 72 and had long suffered from prostate cancer. In a political career that began under Briti
 Robert J. Lampman, a leading researcher on poverty, died on Tuesday at his home in Madison, Wis. He was 76. The cause of death was lung cancer, his family said. As an economist at the University of Wisconsin at Madison, Mr. Lampman pioneered efforts to measure income distrib
 The Rev. Stanislaus J. Brzana, the 10th Bishop of the Diocese of Ogdensburg, which covers a large part of upstate New York, died on Saturday at St. Joseph Hospital in Cheektowaga. He was 79 and since his retirement had lived at a residence maintained by his diocese in Buffalo, where he grew
 Dan E. Sweat Jr., a self-styled Federal bagman and municipal whipping boy who spent 30 years whipping Atlanta into modern shape as its premier civic administrator, died on Feb. 28 at his home in Atlanta. He was 63 and had been suffering from stomach cancer. On paper, Mr. Sweat was n
 Dr. Donald D. Flickinger, an early expert on space medicine who as a World War II flight surgeon parachuted into the Himalayas to rescue downed fliers and later helped select the first seven Mercury astronauts, died on Feb. 23 at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington, where he lived.
 J. Carson Mark, who headed the theoretical division at Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory when the hydrogen bomb was developed, died last Sunday in Los Alamos, N.M. He was 83 and lived in Los Alamos. The cause was complications related to a fall, said one of his daughters, Joan Mark N
 Lars Bergstrom, an aeronautical wizard whose personal affinity for boats led to many design innovations in yachts as well as airplanes, died last Sunday when an experimental glider he was testing crashed about two miles from the airport at Wauchula, Fla. He was 62. The craft appeare
 Nenad Dusan Popovic, a leading economic expert in Tito's Communist Yugoslavia who defected in 1961 to teach and write in exile at Syracuse University, died on Feb. 25 of bone cancer at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 87. Professor Popovic was chief of economic a
 Dr. Waldo E. Nelson, the author of the leading textbook of pediatrics for 40 years, died on March 2 at his home in Gladwyne, Pa. He was 98. A distinguished medical educator, Dr. Nelson was the chairman of the department of pediatrics at Temple University and the medical director of 
 William Clinton Kirkwood, a retired New York insurance executive who until recently was financial adviser to hospitals on Long Island and in his native Brooklyn, died on Feb. 26 during surgery at St. Joseph's Hospital in Savannah, Ga. A former resident of Garden City, L.I., he was 76 and li
 William Joseph Cahill Jr., the nuclear engineering executive whom the New York Power Authority brought back in 1994 to fix the trouble-prone generators he had helped build for Con Edison decades earlier, died Feb. 26 at a Dallas hospital. He was 73 and lived in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y., and S
 William Joseph Manning, a retired senior partner in the Manhattan-based international law firm of Simpson Thacher & Bartlett, died after a long illness on March 1 at Jupiter Hospital in Jupiter, Fla., where he kept a winter home. He was 70 and lived in Garden City and Westhampton Beach, L.I
 Alfred Sheinwold of Los Angeles, one of the leading personalities in the world of bridge, died Saturday in Sherman Oaks Hospital, Sherman Oaks, Calif. He was 85 and had suffered a series of strokes, said his wife, Paula Sheinwold. Mr. Sheinwold gave service to bridge in seven decade
 Edward M. Purcell, who made it possible to ''listen'' to the whisperings of hydrogen throughout the universe, died Friday in Cambridge, Mass. He was 84. The cause was respiratory failure,  a son said. Dr. Purcell had been associated with Harvard University since 1936, retiri
 Ernest Charles Pollard, a pioneer in the field of biophysics, died on Feb. 24 at a hospital in Jupiter, Fla. A former resident of State College, Pa., he was 90 and lived in retirement on the Isle of Wight, England. He suffered a stroke while vacationing in Florida, said a friend, Pr
 The Rev. Dr. Mac Charles Jones, the Baptist minister who led the National Council of Churches' drive to focus attention on a wave of racist arson fires at black churches in the rural South, died on Friday at a hospital near Dallas. He was 47 and had been the council's deputy general secreta
 Marx William Wartofsky, a prominent professor of philosophy at Baruch College and the Graduate Center of the City University of New York, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 68. He suffered a heart attack, said his wife, Carol C. Gould, who was his co-editor for ''Woman
 Oscar Lewenstein, a theater and film producer who was a central figure at the Royal Court Theater in London from the early 50's until the mid-70's, died on Feb. 23 at his home in Brighton. He was 80. Mr. Lewenstein worked with some of the most innovative figures in British theater a
 Martin Kippenberger, widely regarded as one of the most talented German artists of his generation, died on Friday at the University of Vienna Hospital. He was 43 and had moved to Vienna last year. The cause was cancer, said Gisela Capitain, his agent and dealer. A dandyish, 
 Dr. Pierre M. Galletti, a leading researcher on artificial organs and tissue engineering who helped found the Brown University School of Medicine, died on Saturday. He was 69 and lived in Providence and Little Compton, R.I. The cause was head trauma from a fall on Thursday, said San
 Hugo Weisgall, a composer distinguished primarily by his contributions to opera since World War II, died yesterday at North Shore Hospital in Manhasset, L.I., after a fall on Friday. He was 84 and lived in Great Neck, L.I. Mr. Weisgall's musical personality was robust and resilient,
 Leon Danielian, an American ballet dancer known during the 1940's and 50's for his remarkable bravura and flair, died on Saturday at the Geer Nursing Home in Canaan, Conn. He was 75. The cause was heart failure, said Hercelia McDonald, his sister. ''The boy can dance like a 
 Marcy Chanin, a New York real estate executive and philanthropist who supported higher education, medicine and a number of Jewish organizations, died yesterday at Good Samaritan Hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. Mr. Chanin, who was 86, lived in Manhattan and had a winter home in Palm Beach.
 Carld Jonaissant, a dancer with Dance Theater of Harlem and American Ballet Theater, a choreographer and a designer, died on Feb. 28 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 35 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was AIDS, said his brother, Jude Jonaissant. Writin
 Col. John R. Boyd, a legendary Air Force fighter pilot whose discovery that quicker is better than faster became the basis of a far-reaching theory that helped revolutionize American military strategy, died on March 9 at a hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 70 and had lived in Delray 
 Percy Granger, a playwright who focused his sharp-edged wit on academia, television, advertising and other vulnerable subjects, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 51. He suffered a cardiac arrest, said his wife, MariElena. He had been unable to work since a previous car
 Chuck Green, one of the last of the great tap dance stars from the 1930's and 40's, died on March 7 at the Oakridge Care Center in Oakland, Calif., after a long illness. He was 78 and lived in Oakland. Mr. Green played an important role in American tap history. He  learned his art f
 Kevin M. Murphy, a 39-year-old professor of business economics at the University of Chicago, has been chosen as the winner of the John Bates Clark Medal from the American Economic Association, economists on the awards panel said yesterday. Though the Clark Medal, awarded every other
 M. Frederik Smith, a business consultant and conservationist, died on Wednesday at the Stella Maris Nursing Center in Towson, Md. Mr. Smith, who lived in Towson, was 88, and had retired in 1991 after a stroke. For nearly 30 years, Mr. Smith was a consultant on conservation to Lauran
 Dr. Robert B. Leighton, a wide-ranging physicist whose work on telescopes and space exploration gave astronomers new views of the universe, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Pasadena, Calif., where he lived. He was 77. The cause was neurological disease, said his wife, Marge.     
 Bertram M. Gross, a public policy specialist, author and academician who was a forceful and persistent advocate of full employment, died of congestive heart failure Wednesday  in Walnut Creek, Calif., his widow, Kusum Singh, said. He was 84 years old. Although he earned no degrees i
 Dr. Dwight Locke Wilbur, a prominent San Francisco gastroenterologist and past president of the American Medical Association, who helped overcome the organization's aversion to Medicare as ''socialized medicine,'' died on Sunday at his home in San Francisco. He was 93. In the 1960's
 Fred Zinnemann, the director who grappled with issues of moral courage in such Academy Award-winning films as ''From Here to Eternity'' in 1953 and ''A Man for All Seasons'' in 1966, died yesterday at his home in London. He was 89. Mr. Zinnemann also filmed ''The Search,'' a poignan
 Leonard Buder, who specialized in the coverage of education during his 41 years as a reporter for The New York Times, died on Thursday at University Hospital in Cleveland. He was 69 and lived in New Milford, Conn. The cause was multiple myeloma, his wife, Renee, said. In the
 Claude R. Sowle, the legal educator who served as president of Ohio University in Athens when the school became a focal point of student protests against the Vietnam War, died on March 2 in San Juan, P.R. He was 68 and lived in Miami. Mr. Sowle had been on his way to inspect a schoo
 Dean Kenneth Harrison, a New York college administrator who was a leader in encouraging women and members of minority groups to pursue advanced degrees, died on Feb. 28 at his home in the East Village of Manhattan. He was 73. He had been in failing health for some time, said his wif
 Joseph Harold Haynes, a supervising subway engineer whose curiosity and keen eye helped him find the remnants of a 19th-century black settlement hidden in a Brooklyn alley, died on March 2 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 66 and lived in Crown Heights, Brooklyn. The
 Sir Martin Furnival Jones, who headed the British security apparatus when Western fears of Soviet penetration were at their obsessive cold war zenith, died on March 1. He was 84. Sir Martin's background in the spy trade went back to World War II. He saw his career blossom in an atmo
 Morey Bunin, a pioneer puppeteer in the early days of television, died on Feb. 26 at his home in Woodstock, N.Y. He was 86. As a puppeteer, Mr. Bunin created the television show ''The Adventures of Lucky Pup,'' which featured Foodini, a fumbling magician, and his inept assistant, Pi
 Wilfred C. Bain, former dean of the Indiana University School of Music, died on March 7 at his home in Bloomington, Ill. He was 89. Mr. Bain was dean of the music school from 1947 to 1973 and led its transformation from a regional institution to one of international stature. During 
 Clark H. Johnson, the chief financial officer of Johnson & Johnson, the worldwide health care products company, died on Thursday at the Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital in New Brunswick, N.J. He was 61 and had lived in Princeton Township. The cause was cancer, said Jeffrey Le
 Frederick Tirrell Allen, a former chairman and chief executive of Pitney Bowes Inc. in Stamford, Conn., died on Thursday at Stamford Hospital. Mr. Allen, a resident of Greenwich, Conn., was 80. His death was caused by complications of Parkinson's disease, his wife, Charlotte-Ann Mac
 Joseph Fuchs, an American violinist long acclaimed for his vigorous, intelligent and technically assured performances of old and new music and for the quality of his teaching, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 97. Mr. Fuchs was one of those select musicians admired as 
 Robert Saudek, who gave the era of live television some of its most elevating and electrifying moments as the creator of the acclaimed ''Omnibus'' series of eclectic cultural programs, died on Thursday at a hospital in Baltimore. He was 85 and lived in Washington. Having served as a
 Syed Amjad Ali, an elder statesman of Pakistan and a staunch friend of the West who served as Ambassador to the United States and later as his country's representative at the United Nations, died on March 5 at his home in Lahore. He was 89. Born into a prominent family of industrial
 Cyril Francis Brickfield, former  executive director of the American Association of Retired Persons and once the No. 2 official at the Veterans Administration, died on Friday at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 78 and lived in Bethesda. The cause was cancer, said the A.A.R.
 Joseph H. McConnell, a former president of the National Broadcasting Company and of the Reynolds Metals Company, died on Thursday in a retirement home in Atlanta. He was 90 and also had a home in Brevard, N.C. Mr. McConnell was president of NBC from 1949 until he resigned in Decembe
 Victor Vasarely, a leader of the short-lived Op Art movement of the 1960's, died at a private clinic in Paris on Saturday. He was 90. He had been hospitalized for the last two years with prostate cancer, said his daughter-in-law, Michele Vasarely. Although ultimately eclipse
 Arthur G. B. Metcalf, an aeronautical engineer, electronics industrialist and chairman emeritus of the Boston University board of trustees, died on Sunday of heart failure at Symmes Medical Center in Arlington, Mass., Kevin Carleton, a spokesman for the university, said yesterday. Mr. Metca
 Charles H. Dyson, a financier, entrepreneur and pioneer in the field of leveraged buyouts who was best known for his government service and his philanthropy, died Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 87 years old. A lifelong Democrat who worked for President Franklin D. Roosevelt
 Ralph S. Abascal, a pioneering legal-services lawyer in California who won landmark decisions on behalf of farm workers, welfare recipients and undocumented immigrants, died on Monday at his home in Berkeley. He was 62 and had been suffering from cancer. Mr. Abascal, a rumpled, soft
 Thomas C. Fichandler, a founder of the Arena Stage in Washington and the theater's executive director until his retirement in 1986, died on Sunday at his home in Washington. He was 81. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Zelda Fichandler. The Arena Stage, created in
 William DuBois, a playwright, novelist and longtime editor for The New York Times Book Review, died on Sunday at his home in Farmington, Conn. He was 93. Mr. DuBois had several plays produced on Broadway, wrote novels and mysteries and worked with the novelist Frank G. Slaughter on 
 Eamonn Doran, an Irish barman who turned a long-running run-in with American immigration authorities into a rollicking career as one of New York City's most popular and successful pub owners, died on Sunday in a hospital in Dublin. He was 58 and lived in Manhattan. His friends said 
 Jacques Foccart, who masterminded clandestine military coups in French-speaking Africa for Charles de Gaulle and three French presidents after him, died at his home this morning. He was 83. Mr. Foccart's secrecy and preference for operating in the shadows were legendary. He was trus
 Patrick R. Wallace, who for many years was the confidential assistant to successive city editors and metropolitan editors of The New York Times, died on Tuesday at home. Mr. Wallace, who was 79, had lived for several decades in the Inwood section of Manhattan but recently had been s
 Willem de Kooning, who came to New York City from his native Rotterdam and radically altered the shape of American art after World War II, died yesterday at his home in East Hampton, L.I.. He was 92. A near-mythic figure in American art, Mr. de Kooning became the embodiment of its h
 Bill Bradley, who created the Broadway tradition of the Gypsy Robe, a long-running theatrical good luck symbol, died on Monday at Long Island College Hospital in Brooklyn. He was 73 and lived in Brooklyn. The cause was complications after a stroke, said his companion, Rudy Tronto.  
 Carlo Fassi, a prominent coach who guided four figure skaters, including Peggy Fleming and Dorothy Hamill, to Olympic gold medals, died today of a heart attack. He was 67. Mr. Fassi died at the 1997 world championships only hours before one of his skaters, Cornel Gheorghe of Romania
 Judge Charles R. Richey of the United States District Court in Washington, who was appointed to the bench because of his friendship with Vice President Spiro T. Agnew and quickly found himself ruling on Watergate-related cases, died on Wednesday night at the Washington Home hospice. He was 
 Tony Zale, who brawled his way to the middleweight championship twice during a Hall of Fame boxing career punctuated by three memorable -- if not legendary -- title bouts with Rocky Graziano, died yesterday at a nursing home in Portage, Ind. He was 83. Zale had been suffering from P
 Sherle Wagner, a designer whose company, Sherle Wagner International Inc., became synonymous with luxury bathroom fixtures, accessories and hardware, died of heart failure on March 14 in Palm Beach, Fla., his son-in-law, Vincent Geoffroy, said this week. Mr. Wagner was 79. The son o
 Tony Zale, who brawled his way to the middleweight championship twice during a Hall of Fame boxing career punctuated by three memorable -- if not legendary -- title bouts with Rocky Graziano, died Thursday at a nursing home in Portage, Ind. He was 83. Zale had been suffering from Pa
 V.S. Pritchett, the versatile and astoundingly prolific English writer who over a six-decade career became a master of fiction, nonfiction, biography and literary criticism, died on Thursday at Whittington Hospital here. He was 96. A man of letters in the tradition of Charles Lamb, 
 Albert Ernst Hemsing, a documentary film maker and former Foreign Service officer with the United States Information Agency, died on Tuesday at his home in Brewster, Mass. He was 76. The cause of death was heart failure, his family said. Mr. Hemsing worked for the Marshall P
 Morris Milton Schnitzer, a prominent New Jersey practitioner of civil law and one of a handful of legal experts who molded the state's modern court system in the late 1940's, died on March 8 at St. Barnabas Hospital in Livingston. He was 86 and lived in Montclair. Mr. Schnitzer, who
 Samm Sinclair Baker, whose 30-odd self-improvement books counseled readers on how to help themselves to anything from svelte figures to good sex to making money by writing books, died on March 5 at United Hospital in Port Chester, N.Y. He was 87 and lived in Mamaroneck. He had suffe
 The Rev. W. Awdry, author of the internationally known ''Thomas the Tank Engine'' series of children's books, died on Friday at his home in Stroud, Gloucestershire, England. He was 85 and had been bedridden for some time. Wilbert Vere Awdry, an Anglican minister, wrote the first sto
 Allan H. Kalmus, a longtime public relations consultant in New York City, died on March 12 at the Mary Manning Walsh Home in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Kalmus, a native of New York, attended the Fieldston School and was a graduate of Harvard University. He also
 Cyril F. Hetsko, a lawyer and executive who was instrumental in transforming the American Tobacco Company into American Brands Inc., died of complications of pneumonia on March 1 in Ridgewood, N.J., Mary Horne, an American Brands spokeswoman, said. He was 85. Mr. Hetsko was a partne
 Frank Shomo, the last known survivor of the Johnstown Flood in Pennsylvania, one of the worst peacetime disasters in American history, died on Thursday at Blattenberger's Personal Care Home in Black Lick, Pa. He was 108 and a longtime resident of Robinson, Pa. Mr. Shomo was an infan
 Harold H. Melnick, an expert in retirement benefits who was president of the Sergeants Benevolent Association in the New York City Police Department for more than 20 years, died on March 16 at Hospice on the Sea in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 75 and had recently moved to Florida from Forest Hil
 Jeffrey C. Ingber, a lawyer who  represented many leading pop music artists, died on Wednesday at his home in Sherman Oaks, Calif. He was 52. The cause was a heart attack, said his son Kenneth. Mr. Ingber, who specialized in entertainment law, had a client list that included
 Nelson Frederick Sievering Jr., the United States representative at the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna from 1993 until recently, died on March 6 at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 72. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Sievering, who resigned from the 
 Dr. Ramon L. Santiago, a professor of secondary, adult and business education at Lehman College, and an authority on bilingual studies and English as a second language programs, died on March 12 at Albert Einstein Hospital in the Bronx. He was 57 and lived in the borough's Bedford Park neig
 Albert Lenoir Key, a stockbroker and former investment banker who, as a trustee, president and chairman, helped steer the New-York Historical Society through its heaviest turbulence in the 1980's, died on Friday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 71 and lived in Locust Vall
 Dr. Graham Hawks, an obstetrician and gynecologist at Cornell University Medical College for many years, died on Feb. 15 at his home in Manhattan. He was 85. The cause was lung cancer, family members said. From 1953 until retiring in 1984, he held a variety of positions at C
 Morris Schaeffer, a microbiologist and virologist who helped New York City rein in potentially hazardous medical laboratories in the 1960's and left his imprint on the national level as well, died on Jan. 4 at a hospital in Eugene, Ore. He was 89 and had moved to Eugene in 1988. He 
 Dr. Thomas W. Smith, chief of cardiovascular medicine at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, died on Sunday at his home in Weston, Mass. He was 60. The cause was mesothelioma, a cancer of a lining in the chest or abdomen, hospital officials said. Dr. Smith, who was also 
 Robert L. Richards, a longtime executive at E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company who helped introduce cellophane to North America, died on March 8 at his home in Wilmington, Del. He was 98. Mr. Richards was affiliated with Du Pont for more than 50 years. Shortly after joining the comp
 Roberto Sanchez Vilella, the somber, efficient, bespectacled technocrat who in 1964 became Puerto Rico's second elected Governor and then shocked the Commonwealth with an unlikely love affair that left his marriage, party and political career a shambles, died yesterday at a hospital near hi
 Francis J. McGee, a retired police lieutenant who spent more than two decades teaching New York's Finest how to shoot better by firing faster, died on March 3 at the home of his son, David, in Kirkland Hills, Ohio. He was 75 and had lived in the Throgs Neck section of the Bronx. His
 James Arthur Ryder, who built a $20 million fortune in truck leasing before losing it all trying to build another fortune, died on Tuesday at HealthSouth Doctors' Hospital in Coral Gables, Fla., after suffering a stroke. He was 83. The company he founded, Ryder  System Inc., now lea
 Joseph Frayman, an editor and reporter in the London bureau of The New York Times for nearly 40 years, died on March 1 at Chase Farm Hospital in London. He was 85. Mr. Frayman joined the Times London office in 1935 as an editor and stenographer, advanced to head the copy desk and in
 Richard F. Marsh, whose research in veterinary science at the University of Wisconsin at Madison led him to sound an alarm about the risks of mad cow disease a decade before the outbreak of the disease in Britain last year, died on Sunday at his home in Middleton, Wis. He was 58. Th
 U. Alexis Johnson, a career diplomat and one of the shepherds of the first strategic arms limitation treaty with the Soviet Union, died on Monday in Raleigh, N.C., where he was living in retirement. He was 88. Mr. Johnson spent more than four decades in the Foreign Service. He retir
 Harold Osrow, an entrepreneur who couldn't leave well enough alone until he was satisfied he had made it better, cheaper or more convenient, died on March 20 at Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital. A resident of Dix Hills, L.I., he was 80 and had been chairman of Osrow Products, the company he f
 Irving Kane, a businessman who was prominent in charity organizations, died on Saturday at St. Mary's Hospital in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 89 and had homes in Palm Beach and Cleveland. Mr. Kane was born in Russia in a well-to-do family that fled to the United States in 1913, leaving 
 L. Royal Christensen, a microbiologist who pioneered important therapeutic techniques, including the now widespread use of the enzyme streptokinase to treat heart attacks, died on Saturday at his home in Madison, Conn. He was 82. He suffered a long illness, his family said. 
 W. Lain Guthrie, a commercial airline pilot who became a cause celebre after he was dismissed for refusing, for environmental and safety reasons, to dump waste jet fuel from his plane, died on Sunday at his home in Miami. He was 84. The cause was a heart attack, the family said.    
 Carroll James Jr., a Washington  disk jockey whose promotion of the Beatles on his radio program helped make the group famous in the United States in the weeks before its first appearance on the ''Ed Sullivan Show'' in 1964, died on Monday at Holy Cross Hospital in Silver Spring, Md. He was
 Dr. David C. Miller, who attended Albert Schweitzer late in the philosopher's life and who was a noted epidemiologist and leader of famine-relief and other humanitarian projects, died on Thursday at his home in Lavonia, Ga. He was 80. The cause was lymphoma, a family member said.   
 Lane Dwinell, a two-term Republican Governor of New Hampshire in the 1950's and later a member of the Eisenhower and Nixon Administrations, died on Thursday at his home in Hanover, N.H. He was 90. The cause was heart failure, a relative said. Mr. Dwinell, Governor from 1955 
 Paul Denis, a former editor of Billboard and an early writer on television, died on Wednesday at Montefiore Hospital in the Bronx. He was 86 and lived in Riverdale, the Bronx. Mr. Denis worked for Billboard from 1931 to 1943, first as an associate editor, then as managing editor, be
 Count Maurice Coreth, an exuberant sportsman and swashbuckling adventurer whose love of big-game hunting led him to organize an acclaimed campaign to save the African rhinoceros from extinction, died in England on Feb. 11. He was 67 and the founder of Rhino Rescue, an organization credited 
 Andrew J. Valuchek, a former publisher of foreign-language papers in New York who served for many years as a Democratic Party liaison to ethnic groups and foreign visitors to Washington, died on March 16 at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 85 and lived in Potomac, Md. Mr. V
 Charles Faulding, a Brooklyn trolley operator who was among the first blacks to rise to leadership in the transit union, died on March 9 at Parkway Hospital in Queens. He was 81 and lived in St. Albans. He had a brief illness, according to the Transport Workers Union of America.    
 Dr. John Gray Peatman, a statistician who studied audience reaction to early radio broadcasts and was a professor of psychology at City College for several decades, died on March 9 at his home in Norwalk, Conn. He was 92. The cause was cancer, said his daughter, Dr. Mary Peatman of 
 Franklin Cary Salisbury, a lawyer and entrepreneur who promoted scientific advances in cancer research and rocketry, died on March 12 at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 86 and lived in Potomac, Md. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Salisbury was be
 Fred Spielman, a songwriter who worked in Tin Pan Alley and Hollywood, died on March 21 at his home in New York City. He was 90. Mr. Spielman, who was born in Vienna, entered the Music Academy of Vienna at 12 and received a master's degree in piano and composition. He emigrated to t
 Hamilton Fish Potter Jr., a lawyer who specialized in banking, died March 21 in Sun Valley, Idaho. Mr. Potter, a resident of New York City, was 68. He died after a heart attack during a skiing vacation, said a spokesman for Sullivan & Cromwell, the New York law firm from which Mr. P
 Martin Atlas, a retired tax lawyer, real estate executive and former president of the Cafritz Foundation, a leading benefactor of the arts, education and social programs in Washington, died on Tuesday at his home in Washington. He was 82. The cause was lymphoma, his family said.    
 Otto John, a high West German official who was at the center of a mysterious cold war episode, died on Wednesday in a sanitarium in Innsbruck, Austria. He was 88 and lived at Igls outside Innsbruck. As a member of the German resistance to the Nazis, Mr. John also played a minor role
 Richard Arthur Kimball, an architect and former director of the American Academy in Rome, died on March 20 at his home in Salisbury, Conn. He was 97. Mr. Kimball designed a number of private homes in Long Island, Westchester County and Fairfield County in Connecticut, as well as in 
 Tim Johnson, a concert promoter, producer and former owner of the Ballroom, a popular New York cabaret, died on March 14 at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 65 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a stroke, Jimmy Roberts, a friend, said. In the 1950's, Mr. Johnso
 Wilbur Richard Knorr, a professor at Stanford University who studied the birth of mathematics in antiquity, died on March 18 at the Palo Alto Nursing Center. A resident of Palo Alto, Calif., he was 51. The cause was melanoma, a skin cancer, the university said. Dr. Knorr, a 
