 Charlie Zito, whose family bakery provided Greenwich Villagers with crusty, yeasty Italian bread for decades before it became fashionable, died of colon cancer on Friday at Lutheran Medical Center in Brooklyn. He was 78 -- four years older than the plain little Bleecker Street shop where he
 Dan Quisenberry, the star reliever of the Kansas City Royals who was known for his delivery of submarine-style pitches on the mound and one-line quips off the field, died yesterday at his home in Kansas City, Mo. He was 45. Quisenberry had been suffering from brain cancer. He underw
 Eugene L. McCabe, a management consultant who founded and was president of North General Hospital, a thriving, minority-operated community hospital in Harlem, died there yesterday. He was 61. The cause was breast cancer, his family said. ''He was indefatigable in putting it 
 Jack Haskell, a familiar face to television viewers for some 30 years, first as the easygoing sidekick of Dave Garroway and then as a regular stand-in on Jack Paar's and Johnny Carson's shows, died on Saturday at the Actors Fund Nursing Home in Englewood, N.J. He was 79. Mr. Haskell
 Louis L. Redding, Delaware's first black lawyer, who argued one of the cases that led to the Supreme Court's landmark 1954 decision that resulted in the desegregation of the nation's public schools, died on Monday at a hospital in Lima, Pa. He was 96 and lived in Glen Mills, Pa. The
 Chester H. Lasell, a former president of Morgan Stanley & Company, the Wall Street brokerage and investment banking firm, died Wednesday at Greenwich, Conn.,  Hospital, where he was being treated for injuries after a recent automobile accident. He was 90 and had lived in Greenwich for 68 ye
 Gene Autry, America's first singing cowboy of the movies and a multimillionaire businessman, died yesterday at his home in the Studio City neighborhood of Los Angeles, said Karla Buhlman, vice president of Gene Autry Entertainment. He was 91. With his theme song, ''Back in the Saddl
 Gary Thomas Rowe Jr., 64, a controversial F.B.I. informer who infiltrated the Ku Klux Klan during the civil rights struggles of the 1960's, died of a heart attack four months ago in Savannah, Ga. He was buried under the name of Thomas Neal Moore, the identity that Federal authorities helped
 Jerome Dempsey, an actor who worked in theater, film and television, died on Aug. 26 at his home in New York. He was 69. The cause was heart failure, his family said. A versatile artist who took on a wide variety of roles, Mr. Dempsey began his career in Toledo, Ohio, his ho
 The former chief executive of Siemens A.G., Karlheinz Kaske, died Sept. 27 after a long illness, the company reported from Munich. He was 70. Mr. Kaske, head of Siemens from 1981 until 1992, oversaw the growth of the German company into a global electronics and engineering giant dur
 Robert Lewis Taylor, a prolific and witty writer of a Pulitzer Prize-winning novel, a respected biography of W. C. Fields and New Yorker articles that a magazine colleague and memoirist called ''some of the funniest profiles we ever published,'' died on Wednesday at his home in Southbury, C
 Roddy McDowall, who provoked tears of sadness, sympathy and joy from millions of moviegoers for his boyhood roles in ''How Green Was My Valley,'' ''Lassie Come Home'' and other film classics of the 1940's, died yesterday at his home in Los Angeles. Mr. McDowall, who went on to become a vers
 It was considered quite a show at the time: a brazen British bombing raid in 1943 on a trio of strategic German dams carried out with such high-spirited elan, employing such delightfully preposterous techniques and producing such spectacular success that it gave an immediate boost to batter
 Philip Grushkin, a book designer whose work made him the standard-bearer throughout the publishing industry, died on Sept. 25 at Hackensack University Medical Center in Hackensack, N.J. He was 77 and lived in Englewood, N.J. The cause was heart failure, his daughter, Dena G. Florczy
 Joseph H. Baum, the tirelessly innovative restaurateur who created a new American style in dining with theme restaurants like the Four Seasons, the Forum of the Twelve Caesars and La Fonda del Sol, and who gave new meaning to high style in skyscraper restaurants like Windows on the World an
 Marius Goring, a British actor who played Shakespearean villains and Nazi officers and stole Moira Shearer's heart in the classic ballet film, ''The Red Shoes,'' died on Wednesday at his home in the West Sussex county of England. He was 86 and had cancer, the BBC reported. Although 
 Robert Wells, a lyricist and composer who also wrote and produced programs for television, died on Sept. 23 at his home in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 75. The cause was cancer, the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers said in a statement. Working with the si
 Federico Zeri, an  Italian art historian whose expertise was sought by many American museums and private collectors, died on Monday of a heart attack in his villa outside Rome, the news agency ANSA reported. He was 77. An expert in medieval and Renaissance art, Mr. Zeri was among th
 Jerome Weidman, the prolific and popular novelist who wrote ''I Can Get It for You Wholesale'' and also won a Pulitzer Prize as the author (with George Abbott) of the Broadway musical ''Fiorello!,'' died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 85. In his two prosperous careers as
 Mark Belanger, the smooth-fielding Baltimore Oriole shortstop of the 1970's who won eight Gold Glove awards, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. Belanger, who lived in New York, was 54. He developed pneumonia after having suffered from cancer, acco
 Charles B. Delafield, a former executive for Consolidated Edison, died on Sept. 22 at Glengariff Health Care Center in Glen Cove, N.Y. Mr. Delafield, a resident of East Norwich, N.Y., was 93. He joined Con Edison, the public utility company, in 1946 as an assistant to the president.
 Fred Kassner, the co-founder of Liberty Travel and a pioneer in bringing many of the world's exotic vacation spots within reach of people of modest means, died on Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 71 and lived in Ridgewood, N.J. The cause was can
 Myron E. Scott, an Ohio-born photographer who had such an uneventful career he probably wouldn't have attracted much attention if there hadn't been a couple of inspired blips in an otherwise satisfyingly humdrum life, died on Sunday at his home in Kettering, Ohio. He was 91. Mr. Sco
 Roger Vivier, a leading shoe designer whose innovations in heel and toe shapes changed the silhouette of women's shoes, died on Friday at his home in Toulouse, France. He was 90. Mr. Vivier created shoes for a number of the major French couture designers, including Christian Dior, Y
 Joseph P. Merlino, a rough-hewn Democrat who was a powerful figure in New Jersey politics for years, serving two terms as State Senate president and helping enact key legislation, died on Wednesday at the Forrestal Nursing and Rehabilitation Center in Princeton, N.J., where he had been for 
 Lon Clark, who began his career in radio drama and went on to a theatrical career on and Off Broadway, died on Friday at St. Clare's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 86 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Clark made his name as the rich baritone voice of a radio sleuth, starring from 1943 to 1
 Lyman S. Ford, who in the 1960's was president of what became United Way of America and who pushed the old Community Chests to become a financing channel for President Lyndon B. Johnson's war on poverty, died Monday of pneumonia at a hospice in Hillsborough, N.C., United Way of America said
 Menashe Zemro, the last remaining ques, or traditional spiritual leader of Ethiopian Jews, died on Wednesday in Qiryat Gat, the town where he settled after arriving in Israel in 1991. He was 92. His funeral yesterday in Qiryat Gat, in southern Israel, attracted thousands of mourners
 Chang Chong-Jen, a Chinese painter and sculptor who inspired the comic strip artist known as Herge to create Chang, one of the most loved characters in the renowned Tintin books, died on Thursday at an artists' retirement home outside Paris. He was 93. For most readers of the classi
 Hoke S. Simpson, a former associate dean at the Graduate School of Business at Columbia University, died on Sept. 26 at United Hospital in Port Chester, N.Y. Mr. Simpson, a resident of Rye, N.Y., was 83. The cause of death was lung disease, said his daughter, Drayton Jenkins Gerety.
 Dr. Joseph F. Speyer, a molecular geneticist at the University of Connecticut whose early work on mutant genes helped build the foundation for modern molecular genetics and biotechnology, died on Oct. 2 at his home in Willington, Conn. He was 72. The cause was heart failure, his col
 Richard M. Cyert, a management professor and former president of Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, whose half century at the university encompassed its growth from a small regional institute to a national center of higher learning with a global reputation in computer technology and 
 William E. Griffith, a historian and political scientist who was an authority on Communism, the cold war and Central and Eastern Europe, died on Sept. 28 at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 78 and lived in Lexington, Mass. The cause was a stroke, said Robert J. Sales
 Clark M. Clifford, the silver-haired Brahmin of the nation's political establishment who advised Presidents across half a century of American history, died yesterday morning at the age of 91 at his home in Bethesda, Md. A Secretary of Defense for one President, friend and confidant 
 Fred Grubel, who as executive director of the Leo Baeck Institute expanded the organization into a respected historical research center for the study of German-speaking Jewry, died Oct. 4 at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was three weeks shy of 90 and lived in Riverdale, the Bronx. Mr. Gru
 David C. Evans, a pioneer in the field of computer graphics and a noted computer scientist who oversaw the education of some of the computer industry's most influential figures, died on Oct. 3 after a long  battle with Alzheimer's disease, his family said. He was 74 years old. Mr. E
 Godfrey P. Schmidt, a labor lawyer who was retained in the late 1950's by teamsters opposed to the union's newly elected president, James R. Hoffa, died on Sept. 27 at Marian Manor, a nursing home in Boston. He was 95 and had lived for the last eight years with a daughter in Virginia, after
 Joseph Cates, a pioneering television impresario and Broadway producer with an eye for quality, an ear for a good country twang and a weakness for trapeze acts, died on Saturday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 74 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications after long t
 Joseph P. Kearney, a senior vice president for the PG & E Corporation who built it into one of the largest independent power producing companies in the nation, died Oct. 3 of a heart attack. He was 52 years old and lived in Tiburon, Calif. Mr. Kearney, who had been a track star whil
 Bruce Williamson, a longtime film critic and contributing editor at Playboy magazine, died on Oct. 6 at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 71. The cause was bladder cancer, the magazine said in a statement. Mr. Williamson began writing film criticism for Time magaz
 Richard Denning, a character actor who was perhaps best known for his roles in the television series ''Mr. and Mrs. North'' and ''Hawaii Five-O,'' died on Sunday at the Palomar Medical Center in Escondido, Calif. He was 84 and lived in Rancho Bernardo, Calif. Born Louis Albert Heind
 Spottswood W. Robinson 3d, a Virginia civil rights lawyer who argued one of the five cases that led to the Supreme Court's 1954 desegregation ruling in Brown v. Board of Education, died on Sunday at his home in Richmond. He was 82. The cause appeared to have been a heart attack, sai
 West Nkosi, a saxophonist, songwriter and producer who helped bring South African music to the outside world, died on Thursday in Johannesburg from injuries he had received in a car crash, said an executive of Gallo Records, where Mr. Nkosi had made hits since the 1960's. He was 58.        
 Kenneth Jernigan, who was a forceful advocate for the blind in gaining access to jobs and to public places during his longtime leadership of the National Federation of the Blind, died on Monday at his home in Baltimore. He was 71. The cause was lung cancer, said Barbara Pierce, dire
 Robert Allen, a Dartmouth-trained actor whose youthful experience playing polo, hunting foxes and riding in the cavalry at a military academy helped him land the role of the original Texas Ranger in 1930's westerns, died on Friday in Oyster Bay, N.Y. He was 92. Mr. Allen appeared in
 Robert Lee Gill, a longtime member of the New York Stock Exchange and a prominent collector of American antiques, died on Sept. 24 at his home in Manhattan. He was 87. Mr. Gill was born in South Orange, N.J., in 1911 and attended Choate. He joined Shields & Company in 1932,  and in 
 W. Allen Wallis, an economist who became president of the University of Rochester and held a variety of  Government posts in Washington, died on Monday at Strong Memorial Hospital in Rochester. He was 85 and lived in Washington. The cause was a stroke he suffered visiting Rochester,
 Col. Gaston de Bonneval, a French Resistance fighter who spent two decades as Charles de Gaulle's right hand, left hand and half-a-step-behind man, died on Oct. 2 at his home in St.-Mande, France. He was 86. It is not known exactly what prompted de Gaulle, then head of the Provision
 Frank Yankovic, the hard-working singer and accordionist who was crowned the Polka King at a polka contest in Milwaukee in 1948 and was known by that title through five subsequent decades of performing and recording, died yesterday at his home in New Port Richey, Fla. He was 83. Alt
 The Rev. Lynn L. Hageman, a pioneer in drug counseling and the founder of Exodus House, a nationally known drug treatment center in East Harlem, died in his apartment at the center on Oct. 3. He was 67. Mr. Hageman, who suffered an incapacitating stroke 17 years ago, died of a heart
 Reinaldo Antonio Ferrer, a former medical educator and administrator who, as New York City's Health Commissioner, was one of the highest-ranking Hispanic officials in the Koch administration, died last Thursday at a nursing home in Altamonte Springs, Fla. He was 82. He had suffered 
 Cleveland Amory, social historian, novelist, television critic and animal rights advocate, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 81. Although he was the author of a number of best-selling books -- a trilogy of social history studies and, more recently, three popular boo
 Dr. Andrew B. Myers, a long-time Fordham University English professor who pursued a lifelong scholarly obsession into virtual oblivion, died on Monday at Flushing Hospital in Queens. He was 78. It's been almost four centuries since the 17th-century Dutch settled what they called Nie
 Tony Marvin, the mellifluous radio and television announcer who proclaimed ''It's Arthur Godfrey time!'' over the airwaves in the 1940's and 50's, died on Saturday at the Bethesda Memorial Hospital in Boynton Beach, Fla. He was 86 and lived in Boynton Beach. Growing up in New York C
 Arthur I. Bloomfield, an economist, author and educator, died on Oct. 6 at the Maplewood Park Place Nursing Center in Bethesda, Md., from degenerative neurologic disease, his wife, Dorothy, said. He was 84 and lived in Bethesda. A specialist in international trade and finance, Mr. B
 Adrian Spies, an award-winning television writer who turned out dozens of acclaimed scripts for the live drama series ''Climax'' in the 1950's and wrote one of the first ''Star Trek'' episodes in 1966, died on Oct. 2 at Cedars Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 78 and lived in Los 
 Jacques Abram, a pianist who performed regularly as a recitalist and concerto soloist in New York in the 1940's and 50's, died in Tampa, Fla., on Oct. 5. He was 83. Mr. Abram was known for performances that combined virtuosity and precision with a modernist's interpretive coolness. 
 Maynard Parker, who as editor of Newsweek helped transform the weekly newsmagazine from a digest of foreign and political events into a publication that put greater emphasis on science, religion, social issues and technology, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manha
 Peter Paul Artaserse, a retired Jersey City lawyer, Superior Court judge and former state legislator, died Sunday at General Hospital Center in Passaic. He was 98 and lived in Clifton, N.J. He had suffered a brief illness, his family said. Judge Artaserse was the son of Ital
 Jonathan B. Postel, who played a pivotal role in creating and administering the Internet, died of complications after undergoing heart surgery on Friday in St. John's Hospital in Santa Monica, his brother Thomas Postel said yesterday. He was 55 and lived in Los Angeles. Dr. Postel, 
 Norman Moses Clapp, a Government official from Wisconsin who led the Rural Electrification Administration under Presidents Kennedy and Johnson and who directed New York State's investigation of the disastrous power blackout of July 1977, died on Oct. 7 at his home in Clearwater, Fla., where
 Adolf Althoff, a courageous German circus executive who saved several people in the Nazi era by having them work and travel with his circus, died in his sleep on Wednesday in a hospital in Stolberg near Aachen. He was 85 and lived in Stolberg. The cause was probably heart failure, s
 John O. Van Koert, a prominent New York designer who helped promote the fascination with Danish modern furnishings in the 1950's, died last Sunday in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 86. The cause was a stroke, said a friend, Edith Siroto. Mr. Van Koert designed silverware and furnitur
 Jonathan B. Postel, who played a pivotal role in creating and administering the Internet, died of complications after undergoing heart surgery on Friday at St. John's Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif., his brother Thomas Postel said on Saturday. He was 55 and lived in Los Angeles. Dr
 Joseph Machlis, an author and opera translator whose 1955 textbook ''The Enjoyment of Music'' is one of the most popular music appreciation books published in English, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 92. Mr. Machlis was a familiar figure in the classical music worl
 Dr. Samuel J. Messick, a leader in educational testing who argued for restraint in the use of student test scores, died on Oct. 6 at the University of Pennsylvania Medical Center in Philadelphia. He was 67 and lived in Pennington, N.J. The cause was congestive heart failure, family 
 C. David Marsden, a British neurologist who was one of the world's leading authorities on movement disorders like Parkinson's disease, died on Sept. 29 at his American residence in Columbia, Md. A resident of Ash, in Kent, England, he was 60 and had just begun a one-year sabbatical, his fir
 John E. Fagg, a retired history professor at New York University and an author of books on Latin American and Spanish history, died on Oct. 3 at his home in Austin, Tex. He was 81. Dr. Fagg was born in San Saba, Tex., and received his bachelor's degree from the University of Texas i
 Neil T. Shayne, a founder and senior partner of the law firm of Shayne, Dachs, Stanisci, Corker & Sauer in Mineola, N.Y., died Sept. 24 at Long Island Jewish Medical Center in Queens. He was 66 years old. Mr. Shayne, who lived in North Shore Towers in Floral Park, N.Y., died of pneu
 Alan S. Donnahoe, a former president and chief executive of Media General, died Oct. 10 at his home in Richmond. He was 82. The cause of death was heart disease, said his wife, Elsie Pitts Donnahoe. Mr. Donnahoe was the president and associate publisher of Richmond Newspaper
 Arnold M. Auerbach, a comedy writer who wrote for Fred Allen, Milton Berle and Al Jolson and who contributed sketches to the successful Broadway revues ''Call Me Mister'' and ''Inside U.S.A.,'' died on Monday at New York Hospital. He was 86. Mr. Auerbach got his first taste of show 
 Edmond A. Levy, an Academy Award-winning documentarian, died on Oct. 10 at St. Rose's Home in Manhattan. He was 69 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, his stepson William H. Judson said. Mr. Levy wrote, produced and directed more than 120 documentary films. He won 
 Dr. Edward Watson Hook Jr., a national authority on infectious diseases like salmonella and influenza, died on Oct. 5 at a hotel in Gettysburg, Pa., where he had gone for a meeting. He was 74 and lived in Charlottesville, Va. The cause was a coronary thrombosis, according to the Uni
 Collins Jacques Seitz, a senior Federal appeals court judge in Delaware who as a young judge helped refute the separate-but-equal doctrine in public education, died on Friday at the Foulk Manor North retirement home in Wilmington. A  lifetime resident of Wilmington, he was 84. The c
 Karl E. Prindle, an industrial chemist who helped transform cellophane into a mass-market wrapping, then devised a way for the masses to unwrap it without breaking their fingernails, died on Oct. 13 at a hospital in Willoughby, Ohio. He was 95 and was recalled as an inventor of both
 Robert J. Suslow, a retail executive who presided over Saks Fifth Avenue, Ohrbach's, Famous-Barr and Batus Retail during the 1970's and 1980's, died Sunday at his apartment in New York. He was 65. The cause of death was arteriosclerosis, according to his nephew, Steven Suslow.      
 The Rev. Edward H. Flannery, a Roman Catholic priest and outspoken opponent of anti-Semitism, died on Monday at Miriam Hospital in Providence, R.I. He was 86 and lived in Georgiaville, near Providence. Father Flannery, a longtime Catholic journalist, won acclaim and a National Catho
 Albert Johnson, a film critic and historian who, as program director of the San Francisco International Film Festival from 1965 to 1972, was celebrated for his pioneering tributes to Hollywood legends, died on Oct. 17 in Chicago. He was 73 and lived in Berkeley, Calif. The cause was
 Francis W. Sargent, the moderate Republican, defender of the environment and solver of fiscal crises who served as Governor of Massachusetts from 1969 to 1975, died today at his home in Dover, Mass. He was 83. Mr. Sargent moved up from lieutenant governor when Gov. John Volpe was ma
 Joseph Howard Stamler, a former Newark lawyer whose decisions had a wide impact in the seven years he was a New Jersey Superior Court judge, died on Friday at his home in Stony Creek, Conn. He was 86 and a former resident of Summit, N.J. Judge Stamler suffered a long illness, his fa
 Ormonde de Kay, a writer, poet and magazine editor, died on Oct. 2 at Beth Israel Hospital. Mr. de Kay, who lived in Manhattan, was 74. He died of lung cancer, his brother George said. Mr. de Kay was a versatile writer who took delight in wordplay and language. He wrote doze
 H. Richard Nesson, the former president of Brigham and Women's Hospital, one of the nation's leading teaching hospitals, and a pioneer in hospital management in the new era of health maintenance organizations, died Oct. 18 in Boston. He was 66. Mr. Nesson suffered a heart attack whi
 Alfred W. Van Sinderen, who served as the top executive of the Southern New England Telecommunications Corporation for 17 years, died Oct. 12 at the Harborside Healthcare-Willows, a nursing home in Woodbridge, Conn. He was 74 years old. Mr. Van Sinderen's wife, Suzanne, said he had 
 Eric Ambler, whose name is synonymous with novels of suspense, action, adventure and intrigue in foreign lands and whose books became models for generations of other writers, died on Thursday at his home in London. He was 89. Mr. Ambler, a worldly Englishman, is generally credited w
 James P. McFadden, an editor, publisher and prominent Roman Catholic layman, died on Oct. 17 at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 68. The cause was an esophageal hemorrhage, and he also had cancer, said William F. Buckley Jr., editor at large of National Review, w
 THE playwright's fading family photographs hang virtually unnoticed on the walls of the set. In one frame, a black World War II soldier grins beneath a rakishly tilted cap. In another, a shy young woman glimmers in a gown that sweeps her toes. They are his parents, long buried, their era lo
 Former Gov. Burton Melvin Cross of Maine, a Republican who advocated states' rights, fiscal conservatism and local government responsibility, died on Thursday at his home in Augusta. He was 95. Mr. Cross, a former city and state legislator, won election as governor in a four-man rac
 Charles Clinton Killingsworth, a labor-management economist, mediator and University Professor emeritus at Michigan State University, died Oct. 16 at Sparrow Hospital in Lansing. He was 81 and lived in nearby Okemos, Mich. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Start
 Charlton Ogburn, a former State Department official and the author of novels and books about World War II and Shakespeare, died on Monday at his home in Beaufort, S.C. He was 87. Mr. Ogburn's best-known book was ''The Mysterious William Shakespeare: The Myth and the Reality'' (1984)
 Fred W. O'Green, who led Litton Industries in the 1970's and 1980's, first as president and then as chairman, died on Oct. 2 as a result of complications from Alzheimer's Disease at the St. John of God retirement and care center in Los Angeles. He was 77 years old and had lived in Los Angel
 Glenn William Poorman, the president of Esso International from 1966 until he retired in 1970, died Wednesday at his home in Crowley, La. He was 90 years old. Mr. Poorman, who was born in Palmyra, Pa., fell ill with scarlet fever when he was 12 years old, which affected his eyesight
 James V. Hallisey, a lawyer specializing in health care and Surrogate's Court matters, died on Oct. 16 at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 70. The cause was cancer, said his daughter, Tamara Hallisey-Hatfield. Mr. Hallisey, a Manhattan lawyer for the last
 John G. Gude, an agent who represented many prominent figures in broadcasting and publishing, died on Oct. 11 at Martha's Vineyard Hospital in Massachusetts after a fall at Long Hill Nursing Home in Edgartown, Mass. He was 96. Over the years, Mr. Gude's clients  included Edward R. M
 Noel Carroll, a hulking half-miler who set Irish, European and world records and helped establish Villanova as a showcase for a generation of Irish track stars, died in Dublin on Friday as he had so conspicuously lived -- on his feet, apparently after suffering a heart attack during his reg
 Randolph Carter, an author who wrote several plays produced on  Broadway, died on Oct. 12 at St. Albans Naval Hospital in Queens. He was 90. Mr. Carter's first Broadway production was ''Arms of Venus'' (1937), based on Petronius's ''Satyricon.'' Variety called it ''a tempest in a Ro
 Walter Kendrick, a professor of English at Fordham University who was an authority on Victorian literature, an author and a literary critic, died early yesterday in Beth Israel Hospice in Manhattan. He was 51 and lived in the West Village. The cause was pancreatic cancer,  said his 
 John Francis Daly, an ear, nose and throat specialist who contributed to the development of modern head and neck surgery while associated with New York University Medical School and many other regional institutions, died last Wednesday at Holy Name Hospital in Teaneck, N.J. A former residen
 John Didcott, a South African judge known for his firm support of  human rights during 23 years on the bench in and after the apartheid era,  died last Tuesday at his home in Durban, South Africa. He was 67. The cause was leukemia, said his wife, Pam. ''Farewell, Grand Maste
 J. Reese Phifer, who turned a tiny aluminum screen factory into a business that dominates its worldwide market, died on Sunday at DCH Regional Medical Center in Tuscaloosa. He was 82. Phifer Wire Products Inc., which was started in 1952 in an old warehouse by Mr. Phifer, a lawyer wi
 Verner Panton, the Danish industrial designer and architect known for his radical molded-plastic chairs, Op Art-inspired textiles and lighting, died at his home in Copenhagen on Sept. 5. He was 72. The cause was a heart attack, according to his office in Basel, Switzerland, where he
 William C. K. Irwin, a pianist and conductor, died on Friday at the Jewish Home and Hospital for the Aged in Manhattan. He was 91 and had lived for many years on Staten Island. Mr. Irwin spent much of his career in musical theater. He was introduced to George Gershwin by the compose
 Arthur Tillman Merritt, a specialist in Renaissance music who was a professor at Harvard University and director of the university's music department for many years, died on Sunday in Bedford, Mass. He was 96. Mr. Merritt was an influential scholar whose publications included ''Sixt
 James Goldman, who wrote the Broadway play ''The Lion in Winter'' and the book for the Stephen Sondheim musical ''Follies,'' died yesterday. He was 71 and lived in Manhattan. He suffered a heart attack in the lobby of his apartment building and was taken to Lenox Hill Hospital. He n
 Lawrence Doyce Hancock, a philanthropist who parlayed his L. D. Hancock Company into Hancock Fabrics, one of the nation's largest retail fabric chains, died on Oct. 5 at the North Mississippi Medical Center after a brief illness. He was 85. Mr. Hancock's career began inauspiciously.
 Lord Sainsbury of Drury Lane, who revolutionized the retail food industry in Britain, transforming his family's grocery business into the country's first modern, self-service supermarket empire and forever changing the shopping habits of the average Briton, died on Oct. 21. He was 96.      
 Robert L. White, a former mailman who was president of the National Alliance of Postal and Federal Employees, one of the country's oldest independent, black-led labor unions, died on Sunday at Washington Hospital Center. He was 82 and lived in Washington. The cause was pneumonia, th
 Richard Dior, a recording engineer whose work on the film ''Apollo 13'' won an Academy Award for sound, died on Monday at his home in Marlboro, N.J. He was 51. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Dior was a mixer, an engineer who balances the dialogue, sound e
 Ted Hughes, the British poet who was known as much for his doomed marriage to the American poet Sylvia Plath as for his powerful, evocative poetry, replete with symbolism and bursting with dark images of the Devonshire countryside in which he lived, died Wednesday, his publisher said. He wa
 Anthony J. Celebrezze, a storied Cleveland mayor who transformed the city's skyline in the 1950's and went on to spend three productive years as Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare in the 1960's and three low-key decades as a Federal appellate judge, died on Thursday at a hospice in 
 Dick Higgins, a writer, poet, artist, composer and publisher who was a seminal figure in Happenings and the concrete poetry movement and a co-founder of the anti-authoritarian Fluxus movement in the early 1960's, died on Sunday while visiting Quebec City. He was 60 and lived in New York Cit
 Hugh Auchincloss, a retired surgeon long associated with Columbia University and Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J., died on Sunday at his home in Westwood, Mass. He was 83. The cause was Alzheimer's disease, his family said. Dr. Auchincloss, who retired in 1992, also had a private 
 Wilhelm Karmann Jr., whose coach-building company produced the classic Volkswagen Karmann Ghia and other cars, died on Sunday at his home in Osnabruck, Germany. He was 83. In 1901, Mr. Karmann's father bought Klases, a coach-building company established in 1874, and renamed it after
