 Charles C. Tillinghast Jr., a lawyer, businessman and investment banker, who was chairman of Trans World Airlines and a former chancellor of Brown University, died July 25 at his summer home in Little Compton, R.I. He was 87. He died of heart disease, a spokesman for the family said
 Harvie Branscomb, the chancellor of Vanderbilt University from 1946 to 1963, who put the institution on the path to national prominence, died on July 23 at his home in Nashville. He was 103. Dr. Branscomb was the first chairman of the United States Advisory Commission for Education 
 Rex Lardner, a humorist who spent the better part of his life doing what he did best and enjoyed most, writing, playing tennis and making people laugh, died on Monday at the top of his game, playing mixed doubles with his usual tenacious skill at a court near his home in Great Neck, N.Y. He
 Satu Khamphouy Sinnolai, one of the first Buddhist monks from Laos to take refuge in the United States and the first to arrive as a pastor to immigrants in the New York metropolitan region, died on May 28 at Bridgeport Hospital in Bridgeport, Conn. He was 79 and lived in that city. 
 Dr. Edward F. Edinger, a leading Jungian analyst whose books on the interplay between symbols and psychology carried the concepts of Carl Jung to a new generation of American analysts, died on July 17 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 75. The cause was bladder cancer, family member
 Sir James Lighthill, an innovative British mathematician whose ideas about aerodynamics influenced the design of the supersonic Concorde, died on July 17 while he was trying to swim around the Isle of Sark in the English Channel. He was 74 and lived in London. The cause of death was
 They played ''Danny Boy'' for Tommie Ryan the other day, and how could they not? In the three-quarters of a century since he arrived in Chicago with his fiddle, a wiry 22-year-old refugee from the Irish nationalist rebellion and 14 months in a British prison camp, Thomas F. Ryan had played 
 William T. Gossett, a lawyer who during the course of a long career was an auto executive, diplomat and advocate for change in the criminal justice system, died of congestive heart failure at his home in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., on July 20. He was 93. A lawyer for more than 60 years
 Frank Hayes Wheaton Jr., who served for three decades as head of Wheaton Industries, a Millville, N.J., glass manufacturer founded by his grandfather, died on July 21 at the University of Pennsylvania Hospital in Philadelphia. He was 85 and a lifelong resident of Millville. Wheaton 
 John R. Hopkins, a British playwright and screenwriter, author of the drama ''Find Your Way Home'' and the television adaptation of  ''Smiley's People,'' died on July 23 at his home in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 67. His wife, the actress Shirley  Knight, said the cause was a head
 Karl Schirdewan, a high-ranking figure in the old East German Communist Government who wanted to ''democratize'' the Communist Party but lost a power struggle and fell into disgrace, has died in Potsdam, Germany. He was 91. His death was reported on July 17  in the Frankfurter Allge
 Ralph G. Newman, an unlikely bookstore proprietor and even less likely Civil War scholar who made a name for himself specializing in Abraham Lincoln and almost ruined it befriending Richard M. Nixon, died on July 23 at a hospital near his home in Chicago. He was 86. It may seem stra
 Robert H. Cooley 3d, a lawyer who had been leading a campaign to have his family recognized as descendants of Thomas Jefferson and his slave Sally Hemings, died on July 20 at a hospital near his home in Midlothian, Va., a Richmond suburb. He was 58. Pending results of an autopsy, hi
 Alfred Schnittke, an iconoclastic composer who won fame in the West as he struggled against the restraints of Soviet cultural ideology at home, died yesterday at the University Hospital in Hamburg, Germany. He was 63 and lived in Hamburg and Moscow. The cause was a stroke, one of a 
 Dr. Leroy E. Burney, who as Surgeon General of the United States  Public Health Service in the Eisenhower Administration was the first Federal official publicly to identify smoking as a cause of lung cancer, died on Friday at a hospital in Park Ridge, Ill. He was 91. On July 12, 195
 Ernest M. Dickerman, who was known by the Sierra Club as ''the granddad of the Eastern wilderness'' for his efforts to persuade people to defend their forests and wilderness from the power saws and bulldozers of loggers, developers, road builders and other commercial interests, committed su
 Fabrice Simon, the fashion designer known professionally as Fabrice, whose glittering evening wear symbolized the glamour of the high-flying 1980's, died last Wednesday in New York. He was 47. The cause was AIDS, his family said yesterday. At the height of his success, Mr. S
 Everett Hafner, a founding dean of Hampshire College in Amherst, Mass., died on Sunday when the plane he was piloting crashed near Worthington, Mass. He was 78 and lived in Williamsburg, Mass. The cause of the crash was under investigation, the authorities said. Hampshire Co
 Jacek Kalabinski, a Polish journalist and former opposition figure who worked in the United States after fleeing his native land in 1983, died on July 24 at his home in Rockville, Md. He was 59. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Kalabinski was the Washington
 John Seabury Thomson, an Asia analyst for the Central Intelligence Agency who was better known for his avocation as an untiring proponent of canoeing, died on Monday at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 77 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md. The cause was a heart attack that Mr. T
 Leslie B. Worthington, who as president of the United States Steel Corporation guided the company out of a prolonged steelworkers' strike and into a confrontation with President John F. Kennedy over the industry's 's attempt to raise steel prices, died Monday at his home in Ligonier, Pa. He
 A. William Olsen Jr., whose more than two decades as headmaster of the Hotchkiss School brought coeducation and robust expansion to that preparatory boarding school in Lakeville, Conn., died July 30 at his home in Lakeville. He was 77. The cause was cancer, the school reported.     
 Eugene Aserinsky, a pioneer in sleep studies, died on July 22 when his car hit a tree north of San Diego. He was 77 and lived in Escondido, Calif. In 1953, for his Ph.D. in physiology at the University of Chicago, Dr. Aserinsky produced his ground-breaking thesis, ''Eye Movements Du
 Jack Brickhouse, whose avuncular cheer and exuberant storytelling imbued his calls of more than 5,000 Chicago Cubs and White Sox games, died of cardiac arrest at St. Joseph Hospital in Chicago yesterday, said a spokeswoman. He was 82. Within six months, Chicago fans have lost two be
 Richie Powers, whose 23 years as a National Basketball Association referee ended in bitterness, died last Friday in Lehigh Valley Hospital in Allentown, Pa., where he lived. He was 67. His sister and only survivor, Alice T. Powers of White Plains, said he suffered a stroke the day b
 Todor Zhivkov, the Communist ruler of Bulgaria from 1954 until his ouster in 1989, died on Wednesday in Sofia, the capital. He was 86. Mr. Zhivkov, the longest-serving leader in the old Soviet bloc and last prominent survivor of its old guard,  was a conventional party apparatchik. 
 Eldon Shamblin, a gifted rhythm guitarist who quietly helped Bob Wills's Texas Playboys with their influential merger of big-band jazz and old-time Southwestern fiddle music, died on Wednesday at a rest home in Sapulpa, Okla. He was 82. Born and raised in Weatherford, Okla., he got 
 Rudel Briscoe, a Harlem-bred painter who adored art, but loved women and making a living so much that he made a flamboyant detour into the world of high-fashion hairdressing, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. Mr. Briscoe, who eventually returned to his roots and reconciled hi
 Serge Golovine, a star of the Grand Ballet du Marquis de Cuevas in the 1950's who was considered one of the most brilliant dancers of his generation, died on July 31 at the Hopital Ambroise-Pare in Paris. He was 73 and lived in Paris. The cause was complications from a heart bypass 
 Theodore Apstein, a writer for theater, films and television, died on July 26 in Los Angeles. He was 80 and lived in Brentwood, Calif. The cause was a stroke, his family said. Mr. Apstein's theater work included ''The Innkeepers,'' which was produced on Broadway in 1956. Dir
 Rabbi Leibish Lefkowitz, an important figure in the organization of Kiryas Joel, the politically powerful Satmar Hasidic community in Orange County, N.Y., that has repeatedly gone to court over the issue of public financing for its religiously based schools, died on Aug. 1 at Mount Sinai Me
 Max Kaplan, a scholarly sociologist and musician who made the study of leisure a large part of an industrious life's work, died on Tuesday at a hospice in La Grange, Ga. He was 87 and lived at the Merry Oaks, his home in Georgia's rural Meriwether County. Dr. Kaplan's family said he
 Thomas Steel, a San Francisco lawyer who took on some of the most widely followed cases in California involving free speech, freedom of religion and the civil rights of minorities, died at a San Francisco hospital on July 18. He was 48. He died of complications from AIDS, a family m
 Vance I. Oyama, a biochemist whose laboratory-in-a-shoe-box aboard the Mars landers two decades ago helped fuel debate about the existence of life on that planet, died on July 27 at his home in Middletown, Calif. He was 76. Mr. Oyama, the former chief of the life-detection branch at
 Andre Weil, a former professor at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J., whose work in algebraic geometry and number theory recast the basics of mathematics, died Thursday at his home in Princeton. He was 92. At the institute, Dr. Weil was considered an intellectual pe
 Harry Scharaga, who did such a good job clearing snow off the streets of Queens in 1968 that he may have helped doom Mayor John V. Lindsay's Presidential aspirations in 1969, died on July 28 at his home in Lauderdale Lakes, Fla. He was 88 and had retired as First Deputy Sanitation Commissio
 Henry Butler, a versatile director and stager who was best known for his work in opera, died on Aug. 1 at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived in a nursing home in Greenwich Village. The cause was cancer of the esophagus, said Marvin David Levy, a colleague.     
 Hershel L. Herzog, a pharmaceutical executive instrumental in developing several popular antibiotics and anti-inflammatory drugs, died on Aug. 4 at his daughter's home in Coopersburg, Pa. He was 74. The cause of death was Lou Gehrig's disease, said his daughter, Laura J. Herzog.    
 State Senator Jess Joseph Present, a Republican leader from upstate New York who spent more than three decades in the State Legislature, died on Saturday at his home in Bemus Point, N.Y., near his native Jamestown. He was 77. A heart attack was the apparent cause, the Senate press o
 The Rev. Raymond E. Brown, an internationally influential Roman Catholic biblical scholar who taught at Union Theological Seminary for two decades, died on Saturday in Sequoia Hospital in Redwood City, Calif. He was 70 and lived in Menlo Park, Calif. The cause was a heart attack, wh
 Thomas M. Mulry, who was the senior member of the New York public school system's Bureau of Attendance in 1985, when he publicly criticized the schools' policies for handling absenteeism, died on Thursday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 73 and lived in the Bronx all his life. 
 Angelo Zuccotti, who wielded the velvet rope at El Morocco with such authority and finesse that he helped define the very line between cafe society and social Siberia at New York's most storied supper club, died on Sunday at his home in Cooperstown, N.Y. He was 89 and had operated a bed and
 Anthony J. Genovesi, a State Assemblyman and powerful political force in Brooklyn Democratic politics for two decades, was killed on Monday night in a one-car accident about 50 miles north of New York City. Mr. Genovesi, 61, and his 26-year-old daughter, Lara, were returning from a 
 Aaron Birnbaum, a New York dress manufacturer who took up painting after he retired and found himself hailed as an exceptional folk artist at the age of 100, died on Friday at the Crown Nursing Home in Brooklyn. He was 103. Mr. Birnbaum was one of the last of the 20th-century ''memo
 Benny Waters, a saxophonist, clarinetist and singer who was the country's oldest touring jazz musician, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Columbia, Md. He was 96 and had recently moved to Columbia from New York City. Mr. Waters, old enough to have taught clarinet to an original membe
 Isaac N. P. Stokes, a lawyer who worked on New Deal legislation regulating securities brokerage firms and also helped in the creation of the United Nations and the rebuilding of Europe after World War II, died on Aug. 4 at a retirement home in Hanover, N.H., a son, Thomas, said. He was 91. 
 Michael D. Palm, a former English teacher who made a fortune in reinsurance -- the business of sharing the risk of insurance companies -- and then contributed millions to benefit the arts, gay rights and AIDS treatment, died last Friday at his home in Telluride, Colo. He was 47 years old an
 Ned Gillette of Sun Valley, Idaho, a 53-year-old adventurer, mountain climber, sailor, skier, photographer, journalist and author, was shot to death the night of Aug. 5 while sleeping in a tent in Kashmir, the disputed northern region between India and Pakistan. His wife, Suzy Patte
 Richard Mansfield Bilby, a senior Federal judge in Arizona who presided over the 1992 case against Charles H. Keating Jr., a symbol of the savings-and-loan collapse of the 1980's, died on Tuesday as he was walking his dog near his summer home in Flagstaff, Ariz. He was 67 and a lifetime res
 Chalmers P. Wylie, who represented Ohio for 26 years in the House and helped to win approval of the Federal bailout of the savings-and-loan industry, died today in Columbus, Ohio. He was 77. Mr. Wylie had a heart attack while waiting to have a routine eye examination at Ohio State U
 Gary Lisz, a costume designer for ballet, theater and film, died on Tuesday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 44 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack, said Ken Daigle, his companion. Mr. Lisz was known for costumes whose easy simplicity quietly enhanced the s
 James Roland Malley, a retired F.B.I. division chief who played a central role in the investigation of President John F. Kennedy's assassination, died on Aug. 7 at his home in Alexandria, Va. He was 86. Mr. Malley, a 34-year veteran of the F.B.I., also served as president of the Soc
 Paul Maslin, a former real estate executive in Manhattan and the Bronx, died on Thursday in Goose Bay, Labrador, while returning to New York from a vacation that included a visit to the North Pole. Mr. Maslin, a resident of Roslyn, N.Y., and Fort Lauderdale, Fla., was 82. The cause 
 Robert M. Luby, a restaurateur who had such a down-home devotion to quality and such an accommodating string of unemployed relatives that he helped turn a small Texas cafeteria business into a $500 million chain with more than 200 restaurants in 11 states, died on Thursday at a hospital nea
 Joel Barr, an electronics engineer linked to Julius and Ethel Rosenberg who defected to the Soviet bloc in 1950 and became a leading force in the Kremlin's computer industry, died in a Moscow hospital on Aug. 1. He was 82 and had lived in St. Petersburg for many years. He died of he
 Richards Ruben, an abstract painter and teacher, died on July 21 in Venice, where he was teaching in the summer art program of the Pratt Institute. He was 72 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack, his wife, Gail Divan, said. Mr. Ruben's heavily worked surfaces
 Dr. William L. Chick, a physician and researcher who suffered from diabetes from the age of 11 and lost his own battle with it after a career dedicated to developing technology to help other diabetics, died on Monday at Newton-Wellesley Hospital in Newton, Mass. He was 60 and lived in Welle
 Dr. Bennett M. Derby, a neuropathologist who specialized in brain injuries suffered by boxers and who persuaded New York boxing officials to establish stronger safety standards, died Aug. 9 at his home in Manhattan. He was 69. The cause was cancer, his family said. He had be
 C. Richard Youngdahl, a former chairman and chief executive of Aubrey G. Lanston & Company, a firm dealing in government securities, died Aug. 6 at Overlook Hospital in Summit, N.J. Mr. Youngdahl, a resident of Tequesta, Fla., was 82. The cause of death was heart disease, said a son
 Charles Roger Carlisle, a former official of GATT, died on July 26 at his home in Barnstable, Mass. He was 69. The cause of death was cancer, his wife, Nadeane, said. Mr. Carlisle served as the deputy director general of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade from 1987 t
 James H. Higgins, a former chairman and chief executive of the Mellon Bank Corporation, died Aug. 1 at Montefiore Hospital in Pittsburgh. He was 82 and lived in Sewickley, Pa. Mr. Higgins joined the bank in 1950 as an assistant treasurer. In 1971 he was named president and a directo
 Milan C. Kerno, an international investment banker who was the first non-African to become a top official of the African Development Bank, died on July 11 in Abidjan, the Ivory Coast. Mr. Kerno, who lived in London, died of heart failure, his family said. He was 67. Mr. Kerno joined
 Robert B. Baird 2d, chief executive of the Polyesther Corporation and a patron of Long Island civic and charitable organizations, died on July 22 while on vacation in Spain. He was 75 and lived in Quogue, N.Y. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Less than three we
 Wallace Henry Coulter, an inventor whose experiments in a Chicago basement spawned the Coulter Corporation, one of the world's leading makers of medical diagnostic equipment of all types, died on Aug. 7 at Jackson Memorial Hospital in Miami. A Miami resident, he was 85. He suffered 
 Frederick H. Knubel, director of public information at Columbia University and a spokesman for the university for 35 years, died on Saturday at Southampton Hospital on Long Island after emergency surgery. He was 62 and lived near the campus in Morningside Heights in Manhattan. He wa
 Harold J. Ruttenberg, a research director for the United Steelworkers of America who changed sides, became a business executive and remained outspoken on labor-management issues, died on Saturday at his home in Pittsburgh. He was 84. The cause was heart failure, said his son Edward 
 Jim Murray, whose humorous, vinegary and graceful columns for The Los Angeles Times made him one of only four sportswriters to win the Pulitzer Prize for general commentary, died Sunday of cardiac arrest at his home in Los Angeles, the newspaper reported. He was 78. Mr. Murray filed
 Julian Green, the prolific and highly idiosyncratic novelist, playwright and memoirist who was the first American elected to the Academie Francaise, France's gallery of 40 literary luminaries, died on Thursday in Paris. He was 97. Mr. Green, who had his first novel published in 1927
 Otto Wichterle, a Czechoslovak chemist who in 1961 used an Erector set and a phonograph to produce the world's first soft contact lenses, died yesterday at his summer home in Sdradisko, a Moravian village in the Czech Republic. Dr. Wichterle, a former president of that nation's Academy of S
 Irwin J. Suall, who for three decades headed undercover investigations of groups regarded as inimical to Jews on behalf of the Anti-Defamation League, died on Monday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center at 114th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. He was 73 and lived in the Tudor City area of M
 Peter H. Kaminer, a litigator who was senior managing partner of the law firm of Winthrop, Stimson, Putnam & Roberts in New York from 1963 to 1983, died Monday at his home on Park Avenue, said Stephen A. Weiner, a partner at the firm. Mr. Kaminer, who was 83 and suffered from terminal cance
 Richard Boswell Finn, a former naval intelligence officer, diplomat and scholar of Japanese affairs, died on Monday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 80 and lived in Bethesda, Md. The cause was a stroke, his family said. Mr. Finn was the author of ''Winners i
 Stuart Regen, a widely respected Los Angeles art dealer who also helped develop the Academy Award-winning movie ''Leaving Las Vegas,'' died on Tuesday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 39 and lived in West Hollywood. He had been battling non-Hodgkin's lymphoma for nearly a decade
 Wallace Fowlie, a professor emeritus of French literature at Duke University who once compared the rock singer Jim Morrison to the poet Arthur Rimbaud, died on Sunday at Duke University Medical Center in Durham, N.C. He was 89 and lived in Chapel Hill. Mr. Fowlie gained prominence a
 James Prescott Carter, an international banker and economic consultant who also bred Aberdeen Angus cattle, died on Aug. 10 at his home in Keene, Va. He was 99 years old. Mr. Carter worked for more than three decades as an executive of the predecessor of Citibank in Spain, Belgium a
 Phil Leeds, a durable funnyman who began his pursuit of laughs as a stand-up comic in the 1930's and went on to work in theater, films and television, died on Sunday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 82. Mr. Leeds's rumpled face -- ''I'm not pretty, but I'm warm 
 Thomas-Robert Ames, a New York educator and nationally known authority on the rehabilitation of the mentally retarded and disabled, died on Monday at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 68 and lived on the Upper West Side. The cause was prostate cancer, said the YAI/National
 Edward George Lowry Jr., a former chairman and president of the General Reinsurance Corporation, died on Aug. 11 at Sarasota Memorial Hospital in Sarasota, Fla. He was 95. Mr. Lowry was named president of General Reinsurance and its fire insurance affiliate, North Star Reinsurance, 
 James A. Perkins, a former president of Cornell University and an authority on higher education for philanthropic and national advisory groups, died on Thursday at a rest home in Burlington, Vt. He was 86 and had lived in Princeton, N.J. Dr. Perkins became Cornell's president in 196
 Robert Willis Warren, a senior Federal judge in Wisconsin who caused a national uproar in 1979 when he reluctantly became the first Federal judge ever to sign a prior restraint order against a magazine, died on Thursday at Columbia Hospital in Milwaukee. He was 72 and lived in Mequon, a Mil
 Kenneth S. Norris, a naturalist and researcher who uncovered much of what is known about dolphins and other marine mammals, died on Aug. 16 at the University of California at Santa Cruz Medical Center. He was 74 and lived in Santa Cruz. Dr. Norris, an emeritus professor of natural h
 Woody Stephens, one of seven children of a Kentucky sharecropper who became a legendary trainer of horses and won the Kentucky Derby twice and the Belmont Stakes a record five times in a row, died yesterday at the Heartland Health Care Center in Miami Lakes, Fla. He would have turned 85 on 
 Gregg Burge, a dancer and choreographer on Broadway and in films, died on July 4 at Piedmont Hospital in Atlanta. He was 40 and had homes in Atlanta and New York. The cause was complications from a brain tumor, his mother, Thelma, said. A friend of Mr. Burge's reported his death to 
 Harry H. Lunn Jr., the international art dealer who played a major role in creating a fine-art photography market that has seen canonical vintage prints sell for hundreds of thousands of dollars, died on Friday in Paris, where he had a home. A week earlier, while preparing to board 
 Thomas H. Broadus Jr., a managing director of T. Rowe Price Associates, died Aug. 17 while vacationing in Europe. He was 60 years old and lived in Baltimore. Mr. Broadus joined T. Rowe Price, a leading mutual fund company, in 1966 and rose to the position of managing director.      
 Bernard F. Van Lenten Jr., a New York editor and columnist on the men's clothing industry who helped organize the first major private fund-raiser for AIDS research, died Aug. 15 at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 56 and lived in Greenwich Village. He had a long illness, 
 Dr. Darby Wood Betts, an Episcopal priest who was an expert on church architecture and a co-founder of the Episcopal Homes Foundation in the Diocese of California, died on Aug. 14 at Spring Lake Village, an Episcopal Homes residence in Santa Rosa, Calif. He was 86 and also kept a home in Ca
 Hoyt Clarke Hottel, a retired chemical and combustion engineer and a leader in the development of alternative fuels at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, died on Aug. 18 at his home in Winchester, Mass. He was 95. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said officials at M.I.T., wh
 Kazimierz Dziewanowski, the first Ambassador of what he proudly called the ''new, democratic and free Poland'' to the United States from 1990 to 1993, died on Wednesday in a hospital at Pisz, Poland. He was in his late 60's and lived in Warsaw. His death came from a sudden illness, 
 Solon G. Vlasto, the publisher of what was once the largest daily Greek-language newspaper in the United States, died yesterday in a convalescent home in Athens. He was 94. Mr. Vlasto was born in Athens in 1903 and came to the United States in 1918. Shortly thereafter, he began work
 Charles C. Diggs Jr., a founder of the Congressional Black Caucus whose 26-year career in the House ended in disgrace when he was convicted and imprisoned for taking kickbacks from his staff members, died on Monday at the Greater Southeast Community Hospital here. He was 75 and lived in the
 E. G. Marshall, a character actor who projected the image of a knowledgeable professional or an elder statesman in plays, films and television, died on Monday at his home in Bedford, N.Y. He was 84. Mr. Marshall, an articulate, witty man with intense eyes and sharp features, earned 
 Floyd K. Haskell, whose tall frame and rugged good looks made him seem chiseled for his role as a United States Senator but who never felt quite comfortable in the part, died today at a hospital here in his hometown. He was 82. The ABC News correspondent Cokie Roberts, a friend of t
 Lewis F. Powell Jr., the Supreme Court Justice who brought a voice of moderation and civility to an increasingly polarized Court during his 15-year tenure, died today at the age of 90. An announcement from the Court reported that Justice Powell, who retired 11 years ago and had been in fail
 Francesco Crucitti, who performed emergency surgery on Pope John Paul II after an assassination attempt in 1981 and went on to become his personal surgeon, died in Rome today. He was 67. Dr. Crucitti, a professor of surgery at the medical school of the Catholic University of Italy, 
 Harold W. Ezell, who as a Federal immigration official supported amnesty for millions of illegal immigrants only to become a decade later the co-author of a state initiative denying them public benefits, died on Tuesday at Hoag Memorial Hospital Presbyterian in Newport Beach, Calif. He was 
 Eddie Shipstad, a onetime Minnesota rink rat who learned early that a little fancy skating would attract a crowd on the ponds of St. Paul, then made a fortune proving that a lot of fancy skating would draw throngs across the country, died on Aug. 20 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 91 and
 Dr. Frederick Reines, whose fine baritone might have landed him in opera instead of the career in neutrino physics that culminated in the 1995 Nobel Prize, died on Wednesday night at the University of California-Irvine Medical Center in Orange, Calif. Dr. Reines was 80 and lived on the univ
 Marshall Barer, the lyricist and the book writer (with Jay Thompson and Dean Fuller) for ''Once Upon a Mattress'' (the 1959 show that introduced Carol Burnett to Broadway), and the wit who wrote the words for the Mighty Mouse theme song, died on Tuesday at his home in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 
 Fritz Haber, an aeronautical engineer who developed a way to simulate the gravity-free environment of space in the training of Apollo astronauts by flying a plane in a roller-coaster pattern, died on Aug. 21 at Norwalk Hospital in Norwalk, Conn. Dr. Haber, one of the German scientis
 Harold Siegel, a former secretary and counsel to the New York City Board of Education, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 80. The cause was complications from a stroke, his family said. Mr. Siegel joined the professional staff of the school board in 1951 as a c
 John R. Williams, who was Governor of Arizona from 1967 to 1975 and helped the Republican Party gain a solid foothold in the state, died on Monday at his home in Phoenix. He was 88. Mr. Williams was the first Arizona governor to serve a four-year term,  as a result of a constitution
 C. Dickerman Williams, a corporate lawyer who also represented freedom-of-speech clients of diverse perspectives, including The Daily Worker in the 1920's and The National Review in the 1960's, died on Aug. 12 at his Whitney Center retirement home in Hamden, Conn. He was 97. Mr. Wil
 Charles W. Pilling, music director of the Central City Chorus and organist of the Central Presbyterian Church, died on Aug. 12 at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center. He was 40 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was lymphoma, said his companion, Leonard DeCicco. Mr. Pil
 Oleg Prokofiev, whose work as a painter and sculptor was often overshadowed by his championship of the music of his composer father, Sergei, died on Aug. 20 while vacationing on the island of Guernsey in the English Channel. He was 69 and lived in London. The cause of death was a he
 Fabio Coen, a children's book editor, died on Aug. 19 at his home in Manhattan. He was 80. Mr. Coen worked with many leading writers and illustrators of books for children and young adults, among them Roald Dahl, Roger Duvoisin and Robert Cormier. Until his retirement in 1979, he wa
 Jerre Mangione, a writer whose thinly veiled memoir of life in a Sicilian enclave in Rochester became a classic of American ethnic literature and gave a new name to his boyhood haunts, died on Aug. 16 at his home in Haverford, Pa. He was 89. His first book, ''Mount Allegro,'' was wr
 Luke William Finlay, a retired lawyer, legislative lobbyist for the oil industry and general who moved troops and supplies during World War II, died Tuesday at his home in Annapolis, Md. He was 91. He had suffered from a long illness, his family said. Mr. Finlay, in his mili
 Paul J. Anderson, who directed the Division of Neuropathology at Mount Sinai Medical Center and School of Medicine for 30 years, died on Aug. 11 at his home in Manhattan. He was 72 and also kept a residence in New Paltz, N.Y. The cause was a brain tumor diagnosed early last month, a
 Wouter F. Germans, a partner in Hague Art Deliveries, which developed 420 West Broadway, one of the primary gallery buildings during the heyday of the SoHo art scene, died on Aug. 24 at Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 60 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was comp
