 Dr. Morton M. Polokoff, a foot surgeon who broke new ground with his operating procedures and innovative appliances, died last Friday in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 93 and formerly lived in Paterson, N.J., where he practiced for 55 years, until the mid-1990's. Dr. Polokoff made a name f
 James Ailinger, who played professional football when Red Grange was still a collegian and the forward pass was a novelty, died Tuesday at a hospital in Rochester. He was 99 and the oldest former National Football League player. In the autumn of 1924, while in his final year of dent
 James J. McManus Sr., the proprietor of the Peter McManus Café, a venerable family-owned bar in the Chelsea section of Manhattan that often doubled as a set for movies and television episodes, died on Monday in Philadelphia. He was 81 and had moved from Manhattan to Brigantine, N.J., not l
 Stanley H. Ruttenberg, a union organizer and consultant for more than 40 years who was an assistant secretary of labor in the Johnson administration, died on Wednesday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 84. Drawn to the trade union movement as a young man, Mr. Ruttenberg later beca
 Jim Benton, a star receiver of the 1940's with the Rams and the Bears, who set a single-game National Football League record for pass-receiving yardage that stood for 40 years, died last Wednesday at his home in Pine Bluff, Ark. He was 84. The cause was cancer, his family said.     
 Dr. Clifford G. Shull, who shared the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1994 for developing a technique to probe the molecular structure of materials by bouncing neutrons off them, died on Saturday at Lawrence Memorial Hospital in Medford, Mass. A resident of Lexington, Mass., he was 85. Th
 Henry Brown, a chemist who helped make the American Dream a gleaming reality by finding new ways of keeping chromium plate bright and shiny, died on March 15 at his home in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 93. In the years just after World War II, Mr. Brown's discoveries made bathroom fixtu
 Nakamura Utaemon VI, a Kabuki star whose skill earned him a designation as one of Japan's ''living national treasures,'' died on Saturday at his home here. He was 84. Born Fujio Kawamura, Utaemon VI was the son of Nakamura Utaemon V and the sixth generation of a line of famous Kabuk
 Bill Kimpton, who was a pioneer in developing boutique hotels and founded the San Francisco-based chain that bears his name, died on Friday in Houston. He was 65. The cause was leukemia, his company said. Mr. Kimpton was the chairman of the Kimpton Hotel and Restaurant Group
 I. Philip Sipser, a political activist and labor lawyer who had more to do with the sound of music in New York than many an orchestra or singer, died on Saturday in Mount Sinai Hospital where he had been admitted a week earlier. He was 82 and had been suffering from pulmonary fibrosis, said
 Lord Hartwell, a lifelong newspaperman who as chairman and editor in chief of The Daily Telegraph for 33 years, was one of the last of the Fleet Street press barons, died on Tuesday in a hospital here. He was 89. Taking over the paper from his father in 1954 after having worked on f
 Trinh Cong Son, an antiwar singer and songwriter whose melancholy music stirred Vietnamese on both sides of the war, died on Sunday and was buried today at a Buddhist temple near Ho Chi Minh City. He was 62. His family said he had diabetes after years of periodic hospital visits. Re
 Carlos Ogden, who received the Medal of Honor for single-handedly destroying German gun positions in the battle for Cherbourg in World War II despite being shot through his helmet, died Monday at a hospital in  Palo Alto, Calif. Mr. Ogden was 83 and lived in San Jose, Calif. The cau
 John B. Oakes, who infused the opinion pages of The New York Times with his crisp reasoning, passionate convictions and liberal political views for more than 40 years, 15 of them as editor of the editorial page, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 87 and lived in Man
 Theodore Gottlieb, who as Brother Theodore performed apocalyptic one-man shows about life, death and broccoli in Greenwich Village nightclubs to dazzling and disturbing effect, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 94. Mr. Gottlieb, with his wild white hair shi
 Theodore McCarty, president of Gibson guitars in the 1950's and 60's and designer of iconic models revered by the likes of Carl Perkins and B B. King, died on Sunday at a retirement center in Twin Falls, Idaho. He was 91. Mr. McCarty earned an engineering degree and later worked for
 Edward Roth, Big Daddy to 60's teenagers and creator of curvaceously customized cars and delightfully repugnant cartoon characters, notably the slobbering Rat Fink, died on Wednesday in his studio in Manti, Utah. He was 69. The cause was a heart attack. For male baby boomers
 Francis Grasso, a pioneering club disc jockey credited with first mixing records together in the late 1960's by matching their rhythms, was found dead on March 23 at his home in Brooklyn. He was 52. The cause is unknown, pending results of an autopsy. Mr. Grasso was born in 
 George C. Lamb Jr., a former chairman and chief executive of United Parcel Service who guided the company through one of its largest and most significant growth periods, died on Tuesday at Duke University Medical Center. He was 75. The cause was cancer, said Elizabeth B. Lamb, his w
 Maurice M. Bayon, the co-founder and former chairman of Petroleum Helicopters Inc., an operator of commercial helicopters, died on March 22 at his home in New Orleans. He was 92. A native Louisianian, he graduated from Tulane University Law School and commanded a ground unit providi
 Frederick Rath, a pioneer of historical conservation in a country devoted to replacement and redevelopment, died in his sleep on April 1 in Cooperstown, N.Y. He was 87 and lived in Cooperstown. Mr. Rath served from 1949 to 1956 as the director of the National Trust for Historic Pres
 Ronald Van Dunk, who led the Ramapough Mountain Indians in their continuing fight to win federal recognition as a tribe, died last Sunday at a nursing home in Suffern, N.Y. He was 68 and had lived in Hillburn, N.Y. The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Sheila. Mr. Van 
 Dr. Cyrus H. Gordon, a scholar of Near East culture and a leading expert on ancient languages, died on March 30 at his home in Brookline, Mass. He was 92. Dr. Gordon's series of books on the ancient language known as Ugaritic was widely thought to have been his greatest scholarly ac
 Arthur Cantor, the gentleman impresario with a showman's flair whose life in the theater encompassed more than 40 years of shows on Broadway and beyond, died on Sunday in Manhattan. He was 81. A champion of the work of comic playwrights like Paddy Chayefsky and Herb Gardner, Mr. Can
 Willie Stargell, renowned for his prodigious home runs and revered by his teammates as a leader in a Hall of Fame career that spanned 21 seasons with the Pittsburgh Pirates, died of a stroke yesterday in Wilmington, N.C. He was 61. Stargell had a long history of high blood pressure 
 Gerald L. Brubaker, an American weapons expert and arms inspector for the United Nations Special Commission charged with finding and destroying Iraq's nuclear, chemical and biological weapons, died of cancer yesterday in the Hospice of Northern Virginia in Alexandria. He was 60. Bet
 Harry Secombe, a natural clown who brought deft acting, a seemingly uncontrollable falsetto giggle and a raspberry that sounded like a bulldozer hitting a whoopee cushion to his role as one of the stars of ''The Goon Show,'' the 1950's British radio program, died yesterday at a hospital in 
 Joseph Weintraub, who helped make the teaching of economics mandatory for high school students in New York State, died on April 2 in the Bronx. He was 79. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his daughter, Meryl Hechtman, of East Meadow, N.Y. He had a 53-year teaching caree
 Michel Fribourg, a Belgian-born American who negotiated groundbreaking sales of wheat and rice to the Soviet Union in the 1960's and 1970's, died on Tuesday in New York.  He was 87. During his five decades as chairman and chief executive of the Continental Grain Company, he expanded
 Raymond R. Patterson, a poet, writer and professor emeritus of English at City College of the City University of New York, died on April 5. He was 71. The cause was heart failure, his family said. Mr. Patterson was the author of ''26 Ways of Looking at a Black Man and Other 
 Robert P. Samuels, chief executive at Milton Samuels Advertising in New York, died on April 4 in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 71. The cause was lung cancer, said his son, Steven Samuels, of Westport, Conn. In 1965, Mr. Samuels took over Milton Samuels from his father, for whom th
 Richard Evans Schultes, a swashbuckling scientist and influential Harvard University educator who was widely considered the preeminent authority on hallucinogenic and medicinal plants, died on Tuesday in Boston. He was 86 and lived in Waltham, a Boston suburb. Dr. Schultes (pronounc
 Chester L. Posey, an advertising executive who played a key role in shaping Exxon's tiger logo, died on Monday in Vero Beach, Fla. He was 77 and lived in Vero Beach. The cause of death was cancer. Mr. Posey was a second-generation employee of McCann-Erickson, now called McCa
 Harvey R. Ball, the strongest claimant to having invented the smiley face, that 100-watt yellow grin adorning tote bags, letters, car bumpers, cycling shorts and eventually a United States postage stamp, died on Thursday in Worcester, Mass. He was 79. The cause was liver failure, sa
 Harold Leon Korn, a legal scholar who helped devise a road map for the maze of civil laws invoked in courts across the state of New York, died on March 27 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 71 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan and in Lenox, Mass. The cause
 John W. Raber, a former chairman and president of the Green Point Savings Bank, died on March 29 at his home in Jacksonville, Fla. He was 89. Mr. Raber joined Green Point in Brooklyn in 1928 as a clerk. He became an officer in 1942 and was secretary and executive vice president befo
 Robert A. Moon, a career postal employee who in 1963 won a 20-year fight for what was to become the ZIP code, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Leesburg, FL, 34748. He is the undisputed father of the first three digits in the code. Mr. Moon was 83 and lived in a  nursing home in Lees
 Sandy Bull, a guitarist, composer and improviser whose extended fantasias merged American folk styles with jazz, classical and world music, died on Wednesday at his home in Franklin, Tenn. He was 60. The cause was cancer, said a friend, Jeff Hanna of the Nitty Gritty Dirt Band.     
 Sully Boyar, a character actor who worked in films, on television and in theater, died on March 23 while waiting for a bus in Whitestone, Queens, where he lived. He was 77. Reared as one of seven children in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn, Mr. Boyar was an established lawyer w
 Harry Boykoff, the first big-man superstar in New York City college basketball, died on Feb. 20 at St John's Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 78. The cause was lung cancer, said a daughter, Amy Kuklin. His obituary was delayed because word of his death did not reach T
 Jacob W. Getzels, who helped redefine measures of intelligence with his research on creativity, died on April 7 at his home in Chicago. He was 89. Mr. Getzels spent a half-century on the faculty of the University of Chicago, helping establish educational administration as a field of
 Dr. Paul Kendrick McKissock, a plastic surgeon known for a breast reduction procedure he developed early in his career, died on March 26 at his home in Palm Desert, Calif. He was 75. Dr. McKissock presented his technique at an international meeting in Montreal in 1971, and it has co
 Devi Lal, a populist Indian politician known as the raging bull of Haryana, who served as deputy prime minister from 1989 to 1991, died in New Delhi on April 6. He was 86. He became well known for political maneuvering and for a failed plan to build a kind of Indian Disneyland.     
 Dr. Donald McKay Shafer, a New York eye surgeon who developed innovative operating techniques to forestall blindness and trained generations of ophthalmologists, died on  April 4 in Clearwater, Fla. Formerly of Westport, Conn., he was 89 and had retired to Dunedin Isles, Fla. Dr. Sh
 Joey Ramone, the singer whose misfit style and guileless shout in the band the Ramones defined punk rock as a music for Everyman, died yesterday at New York Weill Cornell Medical Center. He was 49. The cause was lymphatic cancer, said Arturo Vega, the band's longtime artistic direct
 Jérôme Lindon, the widely admired head of Éditions de Minuit, an independent French publishing house that includes two Nobel Prize winners, Samuel Beckett and Claude Simon, among its authors, died on April 9 in Paris. He was 75. His death from cancer was disclosed after he was bu
 Stephen Prokopoff, a museum director and curator, died on March 28 in Iowa City. He was 71 and had homes in Iowa City and Paris. The cause was non-Hodgkins lymphoma, said his wife, Lois Craig. Mr. Prokopoff, who began his career as a painter, was known for his attent
 Former Representative Frank Annunzio, who championed such diverse causes as the survival of the neighborhood savings and loan and the minting of commemorative coins to raise money for civic projects, died on April 8 at his home in Lincolnwood, Ill., a Chicago suburb. He was 86. Mr. 
 Joey Ramone, the singer whose misfit style and guileless shout in the band the Ramones defined punk rock as a music for Everyman, died on Sunday at New York Weill Cornell Medical Center. He was 49. The cause was lymphatic cancer, said Arturo Vega, the band's longtime artistic direct
 Michael Ritchie, who directed  films like ''Downhill Racer,'' ''The Candidate,'' ''Smile,'' ''The Bad News Bears,'' ''Semi-Tough'' and ''Fletch,'' died on Monday. He was 62 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications of prostate cancer, said his wife, Jimmie B. Ritchie.     
 Dr. Thomas H. Stix, whose elegant mastery of the literally infinite complexities of waves in electrified gases helped create a new field of science, died on Monday in Princeton. He was 76 and an emeritus professor of astrophysical sciences at Princeton University. The cause was leuk
 Burt Gwirtzman, who was swept into a lifelong passion for sports as a shivering youngster at the 1934 pro football championship game and became the No. 1 fan of the football Giants and hockey Rangers, died Saturday at New York University Medical Center. Mr. Gwirtzman, who lived in Manhattan
 Hiroshi Teshigahara, a celebrated Japanese filmmaker and grand master of the Sogetsu School for flower arrangement, died on Saturday at a hospital here. He was 74. The cause was leukemia, his family said. Mr. Teshigahara, who gained international acclaim for his avant-garde 
 Meldrim Thomson Jr., the former New Hampshire governor who became an ultraconservative icon with his grand and petty crusades against taxes, big government and political critics, died yesterday at his home in Orford, N.H. He was 89. Mr. Thomson's long struggle with Parkinson's disea
 Mullah Muhammad Rabbani, who had a reputation as one of the more moderate leaders of the militant Taliban militia, which governs most of Afghanistan, died of cancer on Monday in Pakistan, where he had gone for medical treatment. His age was not available. His body was flown on a Uni
 Peter Maag, a Swiss conductor who enjoyed a career on both sides of the Atlantic, died on Monday in Verona, Italy. He was 81. Mr. Maag was born in St. Gall, Switzerland, on May 10, 1919, to musical parents: his mother played second violin in the Capet Quartet, while his father, a fo
 Alfred Moen, who in the 1940's invented the single-handled faucet in a fit of anger after twisting on a conventional two-handled faucet and accidentally burning his hands, died Tuesday at his home in Destin, Fla. He was 84. It was while he was a mechanical engineering student at the
 Kurt H. Hohenemser, who in World War II helped design the first German combat helicopters and went on to become a pioneer in American helicopter development, died on April 7 at his St. Louis home. He was 95. Mr. Hohenemser's designs included a precursor to the Osprey, the troubled M
 Merton Edward Davies, a celestial mapmaker and a pioneer in spy satellite technology, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. A resident of nearby Pacific Palisades, he was 83. Mr. Davies went to work for the Rand Corporation in 1947 and remained there until his death.
 Mitchell Stern, a violinist and violist who taught at the Manhattan School of Music, died on April 9 in Manhattan. He was 45 and lived in River Vale, N.J. The cause was complications after surgery for a brain aneurysm, said Deborah Kinzler, the director of public relations at the mu
 Sylvan H. Meyer, a newspaper editor and outspoken white supporter of civil rights in Georgia in the 1950's and 60's, died on April 8 at his home in Dahlonega, Ga. He was 79. Mr. Meyer, who was chairman of the Georgia advisory committee to the United States Civil Rights Commission fr
 Walter O. Stanton, the inventor of an easily replaceable phonograph stylus that was crucial to creating a consumer market for audio equipment, died on Monday in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. He was 86. In the late 1940's Mr. Stanton's slide-in stylus made it possible for users to replace
 Dragoslav Avramovic, a retired World Bank economist who stabilized the Yugoslav economy, died Feb. 25 in Rockville, Md. He was 81. Dr. Avramovic served briefly as the director of the central bank under President Slobodan Milosevic, then became a leading opposition figure before the 
 Giuseppe Sinopoli, an Italian conductor and composer known for individualistic performances in a wide range of Romantic and modern repertory, died on Saturday after collapsing on the podium during a performance of Verdi's ''Aida'' at the Deutsche Opera in Berlin on Friday evening. H
 Dr. Howard Lawrence Sanders, an oceanographer who helped explain the effects of pollution, like oil spills, on deep-sea life forms, died on Feb. 8 at a nursing home in Falmouth, Mass. A resident of Woods Hole, he was 79. His death was reported on April 17 in an obituary in The Times
 Jack Haley Jr., an Emmy-winning producer, director and documentarian who spent much of his career mining a rich vein of Hollywood nostalgia in films like ''That's Entertainment'' (1974), died on Saturday in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 67. Mr. Haley, who had been in poor health in re
 Lawrence P. King, an authority on bankruptcy law who taught at the New York University School of Law, died on April 1 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 72 and lived in Manhattan and Saltaire, N.Y. He had cancer, his family said. At the time of his death, Professor
 Michael Raoul Duval, an investment banker and lawyer who served in the Nixon and Ford White Houses, died Friday at his home in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 62. The cause was multiple sclerosis, his wife, Janice Mahan Duval, said. Mr. Duval was a lawyer at the Federal Aviation Admin
 Mike Schacht, a baseball-loving painter, author and teacher whose images of the game, its heroes and its history found their way into museums and private collections and have even been imprinted on designer ties, died Monday at Piedmont Hospital in Atlanta. He was 65 and lived in Atlanta.  
 Wang Enmao, a veteran of the Long March by Mao's insurgent army who governed China's Muslim-dominated Xinjiang Province for three decades, was disgraced during the Cultural Revolution and was rehabilitated later, died April 12 in a Beijing hospital, the state-run New China News Agency has r
 Ian Campbell, 12th Duke of Argyll and Chief of the Clan Campbell, who rebuilt Inveraray Castle, his family's ancestral Scottish home, after a disastrous fire and entertained views on Scottish history that drew sharp criticism, died on Sunday in London during heart surgery. He was 63.       
 David M. Walker, a retired astronaut who flew on four space shuttle missions and was decorated as a Navy fighter pilot, died yesterday at a cancer center in Houston. He was 56 and lived near Boise, Idaho. Mr. Walker's family said his illness was sudden and recent, but they did not g
 Robert Starer, a respected composer of operas, ballets and many orchestral and instrumental works and the author of two books on rhythm that are widely used by music students, died on Sunday in Kingston, N.Y. He was 77. The cause was congestive heart failure, said his son, Daniel.  
 Walter S. Taylor, a flamboyant winemaker who created Bully Hill Vineyards and made it one of New York's largest wine producers, died on Friday at his home in Hammondsport in the Finger Lakes region. He was 69. Mr. Taylor, who had become a quadriplegic in a van accident in 1990, died
 Field Marshal Habes al-Majali, who had been Jordan's defense minister, chief of staff of its armed forces and its army commander, died on Sunday at the King Hussein Medical City in Amman. He was 87. The cause was heart failure, The Associated Press reported. Marshal Majali b
 James Estes Baker, a former Foreign Service officer and the first black American diplomat posted to South Africa during apartheid, died on April 15 at Roosevelt Hospital in New York. He was 66 and lived in Sag Harbor, N.Y., and Greenwich Village. The cause was lung disease, said his
 James Parton, who was instrumental in the founding of American Heritage magazine and was its president and publisher for many years, died Friday in Hanover, N.H., where he lived. He was 88. Mr. Parton and some associates created the American Heritage Publishing Company in 1954 with 
 Lionel Abel, an Obie award-winning playwright, essayist, novelist and scholar, died on Thursday in Manhattan. He was 90. As a playwright Mr. Abel was perhaps best known for ''Absalom,'' one of his four works produced off Broadway. Telling of the aging King David's two-year struggle 
 Dr. John Marmion Edmond, a marine geochemist who examined the ecology of the oceans and the world's great rivers, died on April 10 at his home in Boston. He was 57. The cause was a heart attack, said the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he was a professor of marine chemi
 The Rev. Leon H. Sullivan, the clergyman and civil rights leader who drew up the Sullivan Principles, guidelines for American businesses operating in South Africa under apartheid, died yesterday in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 78. The cause was leukemia, his family said. In 1977
 Al Hibbler, the blind baritone singer who came to prominence with Duke Ellington's orchestra in the 1940's and then scored a hit with his version of the Alex North song ''Unchained Melody,'' died on Tuesday at Holy Cross Hospital in Chicago. He was 85 and lived in Chicago. Mr. Hibbl
 Ben Wright, a former publisher of This Week magazine, died on April 10 at his home in Colorado Springs. He was 89. Mr. Wright joined the publication, a Sunday supplement syndicated to newspapers across the country, as executive vice president in 1959. He became publisher the next ye
 Charlie O'Hearn, a star in three sports at Yale in the 1920's and the school's oldest former football player, died April 19 in Naples, Fla. He was 99. Seventy-nine years after his 52-yard kick against Carnegie Tech on Sept. 30, 1922, it still stands as the longest drop-kicked field 
 Genji Ito, the resident composer for La MaMa E.T.C. since 1982 and a musical collaborator with many other groups, died on Monday in Manhattan. He was 54. He died of cancer at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, said Jonathan Slaff, a spokesman for La MaMa and Ubu Repertory Theat
 Jeffry H. Gallet, who overcame great learning disabilities to become a law school graduate, co-founder of a Manhattan law firm, housing law expert, author, family court judge and, finally, a member of the federal judiciary, died on April 20 in a Manhattan hospital. He was 58 and lived on th
 Ken Weston, who with Scott Millan and Bob Beemer won an Academy Award last month for best sound production on ''Gladiator,'' died on April 13 at his home in Wimbledon, in southwest London. He was 53. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Weston, who was highly regarded 
 Khalil Riad Rizk, a leading Asian art dealer and philanthropist, died yesterday in Salzburg, Austria. He was 48 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from pancreatitis, according to Pierre Durand, his longtime partner. A consummate collector, scholar and tirele
 Dr. Donald D. Dorfman, who blended his knowledge of mathematics, psychology and radiology to produce intricate models for analyzing a wide variety of data, including medical diagnoses, died on April 15  in Iowa City. He was 67. The cause was non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, said the Universi
 Hal Prieste, America's oldest Olympian and the oldest surviving Olympic medal winner in the world, died on April 19 at a nursing home in Camden, N.J. He was 104. Prieste won the bronze medal in platform diving at the 1920 Games in Antwerp, Belgium. He went on to a career in show bus
 Richard F. Tennien, an investigator who played a pivotal but largely unheralded role in efforts to dismantle mob control of the carting and construction industries in New York, died Monday. He was 65. Mr. Tennien had suffered a heart attack nine days earlier and died in a hospital i
 Richard McGee Morse, a historian who influenced the field of Latin American studies through his belief that the cultures of Ibero America could help Anglo America understand its own assumptions, died on April 17 in Pétionville, Haiti. He was 78. The cause was Alzheimer's disease, s
 Charles Schreiner III, who as he led a fight to preserve the legendary Texas longhorn breed became a Lone Star State symbol himself, died of congestive heart failure on April 22 at a San Antonio hospital. He was 74 and lived in Mountain Home, Tex. Known by the nickname Three
 Dan Lacy, a former executive of the McGraw-Hill Companies and a nationally recognized expert on copyright law, died on April 17 at a retirement home in Durham, N.C. He was 87. In 1967, President Lyndon B. Johnson appointed Mr. Lacy to the National Advisory Commission on Libraries an
 Richard M. Scammon, an influential political scientist and elections analyst who had the ear of politicians and journalists in the turbulent 1960's and 70's, died Friday in a retirement community in Gaithersburg, Md. He was 85. The cause was Alzheimer's disease, said his daughter, A
 Dr. Jerome J. DeCosse, a surgeon renowned as an expert on colorectal cancer, died Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 73. He had amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, also known as Lou Gehrig's disease, his family said. Dr. DeCosse worked at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer C
 Leroy Ingles, the first chief petty officer on the Navy's first nuclear-powered submarine, the Nautilus, died on April 12 in a nursing home in Olympia, Wash. He was 84. He died of asbestosis, his wife, Wynona, said. As chief of boat, Mr. Ingles was assistant to the Nautilus'
 Richard M. Scammon, an influential political scientist and elections analyst who had the ear of politicians and journalists in the turbulent 1960's and 70's, died Friday in a retirement community in Gaithersburg, Md. He was 85. The cause was Alzheimer's disease, said his daughter, A
