 Assemblyman Angelo Del Toro, an influential East Harlem Democrat who has represented his community in the State Legislature since 1975, died on Friday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan while undergoing a routine kidney dialysis procedure. He was 47. Mr. Del Toro died of a heart a
 David J. Silber, an actor who appeared in plays on and off Broadway as well as in several touring and regional theater productions, died on Thursday at his parents' home in Brookline, Mass. He was 41. The cause was AIDS, said his mother, Kathryn. Mr. Silber was best known fo
 S. Steven Brody, co-founder and former president of Cadoro Jewels Corporation, a Manhattan-based costume-jewelry manufacturing company, died on Dec. 23 at Beth Israel North Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 75 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause was pneumonia,
 Assemblyman Angelo Del Toro, an influential East Harlem Democrat who has represented his community in the State Legislature since 1975, died on Friday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan while undergoing a routine kidney dialysis procedure. He was 47. Mr. Del Toro died of a heart a
 Warren Caro, a retired executive of the Shubert Organization and a former executive director of the Theater Guild, died yesterday at Englewood Hospital in New Jersey. He was 87 and had lived in Norwalk, Conn., before moving to the Actors Fund Nursing Home in Englewood two years ago.        
 George Eells, a writer and editor and a biographer of such entertainment luminaries as Cole Porter, Mae West and Anita O'Day, died on Sunday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 72 and lived in Greenwich Village. The cause was pneumonia after complications from brain surgery in June, s
 Ralph E. Van Norstrand, a former Republican Speaker of the Connecticut House of Representatives, died on Sunday en route from his home in Darien to a hospital. He was 57. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Van Norstrand, a lawyer, served as minority leader in
 Maj. Gen. Mohammed Siad Barre, who was overthrown as President of Somalia in 1991 after ruling that impoverished African country for more than 20 years, died yesterday in exile in Lagos, Nigeria. Official accounts put his age near 74, but reference books place his birth variously be
 Eugene P. Wigner, a physicist who made fundamental advances in nuclear physics and quantum theory and helped usher in the atomic age, died on Sunday at the Medical Center in Princeton, N.J. He was 92 and lived in Princeton. The cause was pneumonia, said Princeton University, where h
 Jess Stacy, one of the leading pianists of the swing era and long a mainstay in Benny Goodman's orchestra, died on Sunday at the Hospital of the Good Samaritan in Los Angeles. He was 90. The cause was congestive heart failure after a brief illness, said his wife, Patricia. M
 Merl L. Rouse, a retired insurance executive and leader in the reinsurance industry, died on Monday at Berkshire Medical Center in Pittsfield, Mass. Mr. Rouse, who was 85, was a longtime resident of Manhattan until he moved to Stockbridge, Mass., last year. As chief executive of the
 Claude (Red) Phillips, a former New York City high school basketball star who gained wider fame when he teamed with Red Holzman to form an indomitable backcourt combination at City College in the early 1940's, died in New York last Wednesday. He was 74. Robert Williams, the presiden
 Tino Perutz, a retired international trader whose company was one of the first to export American plastics, died on Friday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. A resident of Great Neck, he was 88. He suffered a brief illness, his family said. Mr. Perutz, who
 Donald MacCampbell, a literary agent in Manhattan for more than 50 years, died on Dec. 26 at Stamford Hospital in Connecticut. He was 85 and lived in Darien. He suffered a brief illness, said Maureen Moran, an editor at Donald MacCampbell Inc. in Manhattan. A few months ago,
 Eduardo Mata, a Mexican conductor who was the music director of the Dallas Symphony from 1977 to 1993, was killed yesterday when the plane he was flying crashed near the Cuernavaca airport in Mexico. He was 52 and lived in Xochitepec, Mexico. Also killed in the crash was Maria Anaya, a frie
 Harlan Logan, who after careers as a teacher, magazine editor and public relations consultant became a State Representative when he retired to New Hampshire in 1961, died on Dec. 16 in Hanover, N.H. A longtime resident of Meriden, N.H., he was 90. The cause was Alzheimer's disease, 
 Joseph Holland, whose long stage career included a number of Shakespearean roles, died on Dec. 28 at his home in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 84. The cause was heart failure, said his companion, Vincent Newton. Mr. Holland was born in Virginia and graduated from the University of R
 Kenneth Leo Patton, a retired Unitarian-Universalist minister and author, died on Dec. 25 at his home in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 83. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said. Mr. Patton, a native of Three Oaks, Mich., spent more than 50 years in the ministry. H
 Melvin Williams Searls Jr., a business executive who left the oil industry to become the first commercial counselor in Beijing in 1982 after the United States re-established ties with China, died last Wednesday in his home in Arlington, Va. He was 59 and also resided in Vail, Colo. 
 Michael P. Molloy, 49, a brokerage executive who had been missing since Dec. 28, was found dead on Monday in a remote area of the Adirondacks around the town of Stony Creek, about 50 miles north of Albany. Mr. Molloy died last Thursday or Friday of hypothermia, the authorities said.
 Dr. Myer Mendelson, a retired professor of clinical psychiatry at the University of Pennsylvania known for his studies on depression, died on Dec. 25 at his home in Wynnewood, Pa. He was 74. The cause was complications from a stroke, said the Levine & Sons funeral home in Philadelph
 Thomas A. Daffron Jr., a former editor at The New York Times, died yesterday at Sarasota Memorial Hospital in Sarasota, Fla. A former resident of Suffern, N.Y., he was 83 and had retired in Florida. The cause of death was heart and kidney failure, his family said. Mr. Daffro
 Victor Riesel, the crusading syndicated labor columnist who was blinded by an acid attack in 1956, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 81. The cause of death was a heart attack, according to his son, Michael. In a crime that shocked the nation, Mr. Riesel was ass
 Jack Denton Scott, a versatile writer whose work ranged from cookbooks to mystery novels, died on Tuesday at his home in Corning, N.Y. He was 79. He suffered a long illness, said Maria Scott, his wife and frequent collaborator. Mr. Scott wrote his first short story at 16 and
 Jim Lee Howell, the perennial Giant who played in four championship games and coached the team to three others during a career that began in the leather-helmet era of the 1930's, died on Wednesday at his home in Lonoke, Ark. He was 80, and according to his wife, Susan, who would giv
 Joe Slovo, the Communist intellectual widely credited with being a mastermind of South Africa's national reconciliation, died early today, his spokesman, Stephen Laufer, announced. He was 68. The cause was cancer of the bone marrow. Mr. Slovo, an advocate in the South Africa
 Robert Marquis, an architect widely known for his efforts to inject a social consciousness into a profession he frequently criticized as indifferent to human needs, died on Tuesday in San Francisco. He was 67. The cause was complications following pancreatic surgery, said his partne
 Dr. Timothy Melester, a Manhattan surgeon and educator, died yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 40 and lived in TriBeCa. The cause was complications from AIDS, said his companion, Craig Lucas, the playwright. At his death, Dr. Melester was chief of surgical educatio
 Dr. A. Earl Walker, former chairman of neurosurgery at the Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions in Baltimore, died on Sunday while traveling near Tucson, Ariz. He was 87 and lived in Albuquerque, N.M. He apparently suffered a heart attack, a spokesman for Johns Hopkins said. J
 Ben R. Rich, a Lockheed Aircraft Corporation engineer and manager who helped develop some of the most successful and advanced military aircraft ever produced in the United States, died on Thursday in Community Memorial Hospital in Ventura, Calif. He was 69 and lived in Oxnard. The c
 Brooks Stevens, an industrial designer whose works ranged from corporate logos and clothes dryers to the Oscar Mayer Weinermobile, died on Wednesday in Milwaukee at 83. The cause was heart failure, said his son William. Mr. Stevens was a founder of the industrial design busi
 Joe Slovo, the Communist intellectual widely credited with being a mastermind of South Africa's national reconciliation, died yesterday after a long battle with cancer of the bone marrow. He was 68. Mr. Slovo, who was active in the South African Communist Party for half a century, w
 Leigh Bowery, an Australian performance artist and designer in London who was perhaps best known as a model for the English painter Lucien Freud, died on Dec. 30 in Middlesex Hospital near London. He was 33 and lived in London. The cause was AIDS, said his wife, Nicola Bowery.      
 State Senator Walter Rand, a specialist on transportation issues during his 20 years in both houses of the New Jersey Legislature, died today at Our Lady of Lourdes Medical Center here. A resident of Bellmawr, a Camden suburb, he was 75. The Senator had been in failing health for se
 Hans-Otto Steiff, former president of Margarete Steiff G.m.b.H., makers of teddy bears and other animal toys, died on Dec. 31 in his hometown of Giengen in Baden-Wurttemberg, Germany. He was 75. He suffered a long illness after a series of strokes, Rolf H. Honniger, managing directo
 Sol Tax, a professor of anthropology at the University of Chicago who is credited with helping to organize anthropology as a global discipline, died on Wednesday at his home in Chicago. He was 87. The cause was a heart attack, said William Harms, a spokesman for the university.     
 Victor Mitchell, one of America's top-ranked bridge players, died on Thursday in Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital in Manhattan at the age of 71. He died of lung disease, according to his wife, Jacqui Mitchell. He lived in Manhattan. Mr. Mitchell, who was born in Brooklyn, was a pro
 Yu-chieh Lee, head of the Lord of Universe Church in Taiwan, died on Dec. 26 in Nantow, Taiwan. He was 95. The cause was kidney failure, a spokesman said. Before he founded the church in 1980, he was publisher and editor of The Independent Evening Post in Taipei. The spokesm
 Carl H. Horowitz, a retired manufacturer of children's wear, died on Saturday evening at Pompano Beach Medical Center in Pompano Beach, Fla. He was 58. The cause was cancer, said Dominick Sicolo, his companion and business partner. Mr. Horowitz was the owner and chief operat
 Conrad Strasser, music director of the After Dinner Opera Company, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 44. The cause was AIDS, said Richard Flusser, the company's director. Mr. Strasser joined After Dinner Opera, which specializes in new American works, in 1969
 E. Ira Marienhoff, who taught social studies in New York City schools for nearly five decades, died on Dec. 17 in the hospice of Beth Israel Hospital. He was 72 and lived in Teaneck, N.J. The cause was cancer, said Dr. Anthony Miserandino, the principal of Hunter College High School
 Gary Kalkin, a top marketing executive at the Walt Disney Studios for the last 10 years who guided the campaigns for such blockbusters as "Beauty and the Beast," "Aladdin" and "The Lion King," died on Friday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 44. The cause was AIDS, said his compani
 Brian P. Gettings, a former United States Attorney who helped draft national anti-racketeering legislation, died on Wednesday at his home in Annandale, Va. He was 61. The cause was throat cancer, said Harvey B. Cohen, a fellow senior partner in the Cohen, Gettings, Dunham & Harrison
 Daniel Guido, who had headed the police departments of Nassau, Westchester and Suffolk counties as well as those of Yonkers and Stamford, Conn., died on Saturday at J. T. Mather Memorial Hospital in Port Jefferson, L.I. He was 63 and lived in Dix Hills, L.I. The cause was complicati
 John P. Mackin, a senior vice president and director of the government division of the Segal Company, a New York-based employee benefits consulting firm, died on Friday at his home in Croton-on-Hudson. He was 54. The cause was cancer, said Martin E. Segal, the company's chairman eme
 Laurence R. Goodyear, a Buffalo lawyer who was active in civic affairs, died last Thursday at his home in Buffalo. He was 82. He suffered a short illness, his family said. Mr. Goodyear, a graduate of Harvard Law School, was a founding partner in the firm of Hodgson, Russ, An
 Peter Cook, one of the four creators of the ground-breaking satiric revue "Beyond the Fringe," died on Monday at the Royal Free Hospital in London. He was 57 and lived in London. The cause was a gastrointestinal hemorrhage, his family said. He had entered the hospital on Jan. 3.    
 Vincent Knoll, vice president and director of couture for Saks Fifth Avenue, died on Saturday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center after collapsing on Fifth Avenue. The cause was apparently a heart attack, said Jaqui Lividini, public relations director of Saks. In mor
 Keith McDaniel, a principal dancer with the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater and on Broadway, died on Jan. 2 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 38. The cause was AIDS, said his companion, Matt Tapscott. Mr. McDaniel, who performed with the Ailey troupe from 1975 to 1983, s
 Murray N. Rothbard, an economist and social philosopher who fiercely defended individual freedom against government intervention, died on Saturday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. A resident of Manhattan, he was 68. The cause was a heart attack, said a friend, L
 Ted Hawkins, a country and blues songwriter, singer and guitarist known for his piercing songs of sorrow and joy, died on Dec. 29 at the Centinela Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 58 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was a stroke, said his manager, Nancy Meyer. Last y
 Dr. Alfred Lilienfeld, a Manhattan psychiatrist and expert on psychosomatic illness, died on Saturday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 88 and lived on the Upper West Side. The cause was an infection after a long period of failing health, his family said. Born 
 George L. Aguirre, a pioneer of laser photography and an advocate of Hispanic culture in New York City, died here on Sunday. He was 62. The cause was a heart attack, said his brother Gabriel. He was born on May 29, 1932, in Akron, Ohio, and made his debut as a concert pianis
 Jack G. Thayer, chief operating officer and executive vice president of Gear Broadcasting International and former president of NBC radio, died on Jan. 1 at St. Joseph's Hospital in Providence, R.I. He was 72 and lived in Providence and Manhattan. He died after a brief illness, said
 Dr. Leo Pine, a Federal medical researcher who developed a growth medium for the bacterium that causes Legionnaires' disease, died on Dec. 29 at a relative's home in Jupiter, Fla. He was 72 and lived in Atlanta. The cause was amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or Lou Gehrig's disease, h
 M. Allen Pond, who was an Assistant Surgeon General of the United States in the 1960's and later the dean of the School of Public Health at the University of Pittsburgh, died last Wednesday at his home in Cranberry Township, Pa. He was 82. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife
 Michael A. Castaldi, a former New York City special prosecutor and State Supreme Court justice, died on Monday at the Heartland Health Care Center in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. A former resident of Flushing, Queens, he was 90 and lived in Jupiter, Fla. He had been in declining health 
 Roderick Stephens Jr., a leading yachtsman and boat systems expert who sailed in three America's Cup defense campaigns, died early Tuesday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 85. Bill Langan, a spokesman for the family, said Mr. Stephens died in his sleep. He had suffered a stroke
 The Rev. Barnabas Ahern, a prominent Roman Catholic theologian and biblical scholar, died on Monday at the Immaculate Conception Passionist Monastery in Chicago. He was 79. The cause was complications from Alzheimer's disease, said the Rev. Michael Joseph Stengel, head of the Passio
 Dr. Donald A. Shaskan, a San Francisco psychiatrist noted for his work with group therapy, died on Jan. 5 at Alta Bates Hospital in Berkeley, Calif. He was 84 and lived in Berkeley. The cause was complications from a kidney disorder, his family said. Dr. Shaskan helped bring
 Dr. Victor Goodhill, an ear surgeon who helped found clinics and advocacy groups for the hearing-impaired, died on Dec. 26 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 83. The cause was heart disease, said Christine Coleman, executive director of the Hope for Hearing Foundation-U.C.L.A., an a
 Gordon P. Franklin, a former president of Saks Fifth Avenue, died on Tuesday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 79 and lived in East Hampton, L.I. The cause was complications from cancer of the esophagus and stomach, his family said. Mr. Franklin, who was bo
 George McNeil, an Abstract Expressionist painter who turned to the use of vibrant colors and explosively painted figures in works that suggest the joyous anarchy of children's art, died on Tuesday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 86. The cause was congestive heart failure, said Julia
 John Martin Gleason, a longtime police chief of Greenwich, Conn., and later the national director of the Boys Clubs of America, died on Tuesday at his home in Charleston, S.C. He was 87 and had moved to Charleston in 1988 after 71 years in Greenwich. He died after a lengthy illness,
 Josef Gingold, a Russian-born violinist who played under Toscanini and George Szell and later became one of the two or three most influential American violin teachers, died on Wednesday at Bloomington Hospital in Bloomington, Ind. He was 85. He was hospitalized 10 days ago after wha
 Robert H. Abajian, a retired fashion designer for Liz Claiborne, died on Jan. 6 in his home in Manhattan. He was 62. The cause was lung cancer, said a friend, Ronald Marshall of Manhattan. As a senior vice president at Liz Claiborne, he was in charge of coordinating design f
 Robert Warren Harlan, a former executive director of the National Council of Young Men's Christian Associations, died on Monday at Grossmont Hospital in La Mesa, Calif. He was 73 and lived in Alpine, Calif. The cause was liver cancer, said Frank C. Kiehne, a family spokesman in Wash
 Edwin H. Shutt Jr., who led Tambrands Inc., a tampon manufacturer, when toxic-shock syndrome shook consumer confidence in the industry in the early 1980's, died on Dec. 23 at his home in Nassau County. He was 67. The cause was heart failure, according to a spokeswoman for the First 
 George Price, a cartoonist whose eccentric comic visions of natural disasters, feuding spouses and the habits of a distinctively odd cast of characters were staples of The New Yorker magazine for nearly six decades, died on Thursday at Englewood Hospital in Englewood, N.J. He was 93 and liv
 Mordi Gassner, an artist and mural painter whose most prominent work reflected the spirit of the Renaissance and humanity's knowledge of science, died on Monday in Southside Community Hospital in Farmville, Va. He was 95 and lived in Drakes Branch, Va. Mr. Gassner's family said the 
 Sterling Dow, a leading expert on Greek history of the fifth and fourth centuries B.C, died on Monday at Mount Auburn Hospital in Cambridge, Mass. He was 91 and lived in Cambridge. The cause was congestive heart failure, said a grandson, Bradley M. Lown of Portsmouth, N.H. A
 Walter J. Sheridan, a Federal investigator who was an associate of the Kennedy family and pursued the teamsters' union leader James R. Hoffa, died on Friday at his home in Derwood, Md. He was 69. The cause was lung cancer, friends said. Mr. Sheridan worked closely with Rober
 Oren Root, a former New York Superintendent of Banks and an aide and adviser to Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller, died on Saturday at his home in Bedford, N.Y. He was 83. The cause was cancer, said his son Oren Root Jr. Mr. Root, a lawyer, was a great-nephew of Elihu Root, a forme
 Ralph Merrifield, a British archeologist and an authority on London when it was under the Roman Empire, died last Monday in King's College Hospital in London. He was 81 and lived in London. The cause was cardiac arrest after a brief illness, said his wife, Lysbeth. Mr. Merri
 Bishop David E. Johnson, the retiring leader of the largest Episcopal diocese in the country, was found dead in his apartment on Sunday of a single gunshot wound to the chest. He "died by his own hand," said his elected successor, Bishop M. Thomas Shaw. Bishop Johnson, 61, a
 Dr. Carl Monder, a biochemist who specialized in contraceptive safety and steroid chemistry, died on Jan. 5 in Englewood Hospital in New Jersey. Dr. Monder, who lived in Teaneck, N.J., was 66. He had a brief illness, said Dr. David Phillips, a colleague at the Population Council in 
 Edward T. Gargan, a scholar of modern French intellectual and social history and emeritus professor of French history at the University of Wisconsin, died on Tuesday at his home in Madison. He was 72. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Professor Gargan was the au
 William H. Lieberson, a director and playwright, died on Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan.  He was 79 and lived in Manhattan. He had had a heart ailment, said his son Dennis. In the course of a long career in the theater, chiefly as the founder and artistic directo
 Charles B. McCoy, who as chairman and president of E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company helped turn a family-run company into a modern corporation, died on Monday at Stonegates, a retirement home in Greenville, Del. He was 85. The cause was Alzheimer's disease, from which he had suffe
 Daniel Robbins, an art historian who specialized in 20th-century art and helped encourage the study of it while director of the Museum of Art at the Rhode Island School of Design and briefly of the Fogg Art Museum at Harvard University, died on Saturday at the Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Ce
 Max Schnapp, a labor activist turned advocate of pets and their owners, died on Jan. 10 at Interfaith Hospital in Brooklyn. He was 90 and lived in Brighton Beach. He had a lengthy illness, his family said. Mr. Schnapp founded and was president of the Pet Owners Protective As
 Paul Delouvrier, the French civil servant and economist who administered French Algeria in the late 1950's and then gave the environs of Paris their modern look, died on Monday. He was 80. Friends in Paris said he died in a hospital but did not disclose the cause. Mr. Delouv
 Reece A. Overcash Jr., the chairman and chief executive of the Associates Corporation of North America, a financial service subsidiary of the Ford Motor Company, died today at the Zale Lipshy University Hospital in Dallas. He was 68 and lived in Dallas. The cause was a stroke that h
 Adolf Butenandt, a German scientist whose pioneering work on sex hormones earned him the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1939, died today in Munich at the age of 91. His death came after a long illness, The Associated Press reported. His work in isolating and synthesizing several hormon
 George Kinzler, a specialty food consultant and former gourmet foods buyer who helped to create the Cellar Marketplace at the Macy's at Herald Square, died on Sunday at his Manhattan home. He was 81. The cause was liver failure, his family said. Mr. Kinzler, a graduate of Ci
 Harry Golombek, a British international chess master and former chess correspondent for The Times of London and The Observer, died on Jan. 7, according to press reports from London. He was 83. Mr. Golombek was an important figure in a resurgence of the game in Britain after he began
 Henry Harrison Coords, former president of Fisher-Price toys, died on Thursday at Jupiter Medical Center in Jupiter, Fla. He was 79 and lived in Jupiter. The cause of death was Crohn's disease, said his wife, Gertrude. During Mr. Coords's 14-year tenure as president of Fishe
 Lawrence J. O'Brien, former chief executive of one of the nation's largest suppliers of commercial and residential security systems, died last Thursday at the Hospice of Northern Virginia in Arlington, Va. He was 81. The cause was lung cancer, said Martin McLaughlin, a family friend
 Louis Simon, the father of the pop singer Paul Simon, died on Tuesday at his home in Englewood Cliffs, N.J. He was 79. Mr. Simon, who was born in Newark, was a professional musician who performed on television shows and in nightclubs from the 1930's through the 60's. He also earned 
 Ray Johnson, a collage artist who was a pioneer in using images from popular culture, died on Friday in Sag Harbor, L.I. He was 67 and lived in Locust Valley, L.I. A spokesman for the Sag Harbor Police Department said that Mr. Johnson checked into the Baron's Cove Inn in Sag Harbor 
 Dr. Robley C. Williams, a biophysicist noted for investigating the structure of viruses, died on Jan. 3 at the home of his daughter, Grace, in Oneonta, N.Y. He was 86. The cause was pneumonia after a long illness, his family said. Dr. Williams had started a career in astrono
 Ron Luciano, a former major league umpire known for his flamboyant style and later the author of a series of colorful reminiscences on the baseball world, was found dead yesterday afternoon in the garage of his home in Endicott, N.Y., the police reported. He was 57. "The preliminary
 S. Michael Higgins, the president of the New Jersey Special Olympics since 1984, died on Sunday at the Hunterdon Medical Center in Flemington, N.J. He was 44 and lived in Ringoes, N.J. The cause was cancer, his family said. A native of Eaton Rapids, Mich., Mr. Higgins was a 
 Dr. Sidney Visner, a physicist who was an expert on the commercial uses of nuclear power, died on Jan. 5 in his home in Atlanta. He was 77. The cause was a heart attack, said his son, Samuel Sanders Visner of Washington. As a senior member of the Institute for Nuclear Power 
 William Dillard, a jazz trumpeter from the swing era who also acted on Broadway, died on Monday at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 83 and lived in Queens. The cause was complications from lupus and pneumonia, said his wife, Celestine. Mr. Dillard wa
 Dr. Anthony A. Lofaro, a vascular surgeon who taught surgery and anatomy, died on Jan. 10 at his home in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 79. The cause was a heart attack, said his daughter, Laura Lofaro of Manhattan. Dr. Lofaro, who set up a private practice in New York City in the 
 Frederick J. Schlink, a founding father of the American consumers movement and a best-selling writer on consumerism, died on Sunday at Warren Hospital in Phillipsburg, N.J. He was 103 and lived in Washington, N.J. He died after a brief illness, said Peter L. Spencer, editor of Consu
 James Michalos, a retired professor of civil engineering at Polytechnic Institute of New York and a consultant to government agencies and private builders, died on Jan. 7 in his home in Manhattan. He was 82. The cause was a brain tumor, said his son, Peter, of Manhattan. For
 Maurits Dekker, a retired New York publisher of scientific texts and materials, died on Monday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Stamford, Conn. A Greenwich resident, he was 95. He had been in failing health for several years, his family said. Born in Amsterdam, Mr. Dekker studied
 Dr. Norbert H. Leeseberg, a former professor and administrator at Wagner College on Staten Island and the former chairman of the board of Staten Island University Hospital, died on Saturday at the hospital. He was 64 and lived in West Brighton, S.I. The cause was cancer, said Dr. El
 Ron Luciano, the former major league umpire who was found dead in the garage of his home in Endicott, N.Y., Wednesday afternoon, took his own life by means of carbon monoxide poisoning, the Broome County Coroner ruled after an autopsy yesterday. Mr. Luciano, known for his flamboyant
 William M. Blair, a longtime New York Times correspondent who specialized in agricultural and environmental issues, died on Jan. 13 in Martin Memorial Hospital in Stuart, Fla. He was 83. The cause was congestive heart failure, said a son, Jeffrey. Known from the 1950's as Fa
 Edwin A. Rothschild, who was the president of the American Civil Liberties Union of Illinois in 1977 when its defense of the right of the American Nazi Party to march in Skokie, Ill., touched off angry demonstrations, died on Jan. 10 at his home in Chicago. He was 84. The cause was 
 John C. White, a Texas sharecropper's son who became Democratic national chairman under President Jimmy Carter, died here today at Georgetown University Hospital, where he had been under treatment for a heart ailment. He was 70 and lived in Washington. Mr. White had a successful car
 Lord Cowdray, who controlled one of Britain's largest fortunes as chairman of the S. Pearson & Son conglomerate, died Thursday at King Edward VI Hospital in Midhurst, Sussex. He was 84. He lived on a 17,000-acre estate at Midhurst and a 60,000-acre tract in the Scottish region of Gr
 Percy Knauth, an author and former news correspondent, died on Sunday at Mystic Manor Convalescent Center in Mystic, Conn. A resident of Stonington, Conn., he was 80. He died after a lengthy illness, his family said. Mr. Knauth -- the "k" is pronounced -- wrote "A Season in 
 Daryl M. Chapin, a scientist who helped invent a device for converting sunlight into electricity, died in his sleep on Thursday at his home in Naples, Fla. He was 88. His daughter, Audrey Svennsen, said that he had had a weak heart, but that the cause of death was not known. On Thur
 Dr. Bernard L. Oser, a biochemist whose work enriched public awareness of what can safely go into food and drink and cosmetics, died yesterday in Englewood Hospital in Englewood, N.J. He was 95 years old. The cause was a gastrointestinal illness, his family said. Dr. Oser li
 Hans P. Nordheimer, a retired international trade executive, died on Thursday at the Redwood Terrace convalescent center in Escondido, Calif. Mr. Nordheimer, who was 88, lived in San Diego County. He was a longtime vice president of H. A. Astlett & Company of New York and later was 
 James Bell, a professor of solid mechanics at Johns Hopkins University who did extensive research into how materials undergo change, died on Sunday at his home in Baltimore. He was 80. The cause was cancer, said his wife of 54 years, Perra Bell. His scientific investigations
 Edward Hidalgo, a Mexican-born lawyer who was Secretary of the Navy in the Carter Administration, died Saturday at a hospital in Fairfax, Va. He was 82. The cause of death was cardiac arrest, said Lieut. Comdr. Joseph Quimby, a spokesman for the Navy. He was Assistant Secret
 Sidney Slon, a radio scriptwriter who wrote "The Shadow" and "Dick Tracy" shows in the 1940's, died on Saturday morning at a nursing home in Ramapo, N.Y. He was 84 years old and lived most of his life in Manhattan. He died of heart failure after suffering from Alzheimer's disease fo
 Arthur Cohen, an engineer who helped to develop the proximity fuse detonator, a battlefield device that caused enemy missiles to explode prematurely, died on Jan. 12 at New York Hospital. He was 74 and lived in Flemington, N.J. The cause was cancer, said his daughter Denise Shapiro.
 Clifton W. Phalen, who set out in 1928 as a telephone lineman and student engineer in Syracuse and retired 38 years later as chairman of the New York Telephone Company, died on Friday at his home on Shelter Island, L.I. He was 88. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. P
 Giulio Turcato, a painter and sculptor who was a prominent member of Italy's postwar avant-garde, died on Sunday at his home in Rome. He was 82. Mr. Turcato, who was born in Mantua in 1912, studied and then taught art in Venice. In 1943, he settled in Rome, where he took part in the
 J. Edgar Joseph, the head of the costume department at New York City Opera for 35 years, died on Jan. 12 at Sharp-Cabrillo Hospital in San Diego. He was 81 and lived in San Diego. The cause was complications after surgery, said Susan Woelzl, the publicity director at the New York Ci
 Dr. Mitchell Kietzman, a retired psychology professor at Queens College, died on Jan. 9 at the Parkmont Rehabilitation and Nursing Center in Fremont, Calif. He was 65 and had been a resident of Staten Island for 27 years until moving to Huntington, Calif., in 1989. The cause was Lew
 Albertis S. Harrison Jr., who served as State Attorney General and Governor as Virginia made its last stand against racial integration, died on Monday at his home in Lawrenceville, Va. He was 88. The cause was a heart attack, the Governor's office in Richmond said. Mr. Harri
 Dr. Reynold Edward Burch, a physician to two generations of Newark residents whose babies he delivered and whose adolescents he sought to guide, died on Jan. 17 at his home in Silver Spring, Md., where he was living in retirement. A former resident of Newark and Montclair, N.J., he was 80. 
 Albert Hessberg 2d, a prominent Albany lawyer who served on many civic boards, died on Tuesday at the Albany Medical Center. He was 78 and a lifelong resident of Albany. The cause was cancer, said his daughter, Caroline Smedvig of Boston. A retired senior partner in the firm
 Benjamin Weintraub, an expert on bankruptcy and corporate reorganization who advised the City Council during New York's fiscal crisis in the 1970's, died on Jan. 14 at his home in Manhattan. He was 89. The cause was heart failure, said his son-in-law, Michael J. Crames of Scarsdale,
 Prof. Edward Shils, a theoretical sociologist noted for his research on the role of intellectuals in the formation of public policy and the exercise of power, died on Monday at his home in Chicago. He was 84. The cause was cancer, according to the University of Chicago, where he hel
 Saul Rogovin, a Brooklyn-born pitcher who spent eight years in the major leagues and 12 as a high school teacher in New York City, died on Monday. He was 71. He had been suffering from cancer, his wife, Evelyn, said. Rogovin was a right-hander from Abraham Lincoln High Schoo
 Albert William Tucker, a leading mathematician whose ideas and teaching influenced economics and business in the postwar era, died on Wednesday. He was 89. Professor Tucker was chairman of the mathematics department at Princeton University in the 1950's and 1960's, but effectively p
 Dr. Kenneth Sterling, a specialist in thyroid diseases whose research advanced knowledge of how thyroid hormones affect human metabolism, died on Jan. 12 at his home in Riverdale, the Bronx. He was 74. The cause apparently was complications from an aneurysm, his family said.        
 Edwin Michael Slote, a lawyer who specialized in bankruptcy and corporate reorganization, died on Jan. 14 at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 89. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said. Starting in the 1930's, Mr. Slote was involved in th
 Henry Gladstone, a newscaster on the New York radio station WOR for 32 years, died on Sunday in San Diego, where he moved after his retirement in 1977. He was 83. The cause was heart failure, his family said. Mr. Gladstone, who was born in Boston, graduated from the Universi
 Joseph Mruk, a former Mayor of Buffalo and Congressman who took up as his cause the occupation of Poland by the Soviet Union, died on Saturday in the Furgala Nursing Home in Lancaster, N.Y. He was 91 and lived in Cheektowaga, N.Y. He health had been in decline for a number of years,
 Edward Aborn, a leader in the American coffee industry who helped develop instant coffee, died on Jan. 15 at South Miami Hospital. A former resident of New Jersey, he was 84 and lived in Hot Springs, Va., and Key Largo, Fla. The cause was cardiac arrest, his family said. Mr.
 Franz Allers, a classically trained conductor who was the musical director for the original production of "My Fair Lady" and other Broadway musicals by Alan Jay Lerner and Frederick Loewe, died on Thursday at Desert Springs Hospital in Las Vegas, Nev., while traveling to California. He was 
 G. Robert Holmen, the former chairman of the United States division of Backer Spielvogel Bates, the advertising agency, died on Monday while vacationing in the United States Virgin Islands. Mr. Holmen had lived in Vero Beach, Fla., since 1993. He was 61. The cause of death was a hea
 George P. Baker, dean of the Harvard Business School in the 1960's and a leading authority on transportation, air defense and the organization of business and government, died on Wednesday in the Good Samaritan Regional Medical Center in Phoenix. He was 91. The cause was complicatio
 Dr. Lemuel W. Diggs, who spent more than 60 years as a national leader of research into sickle cell anemia and helped the actor Danny Thomas establish the aims of the St. Jude Children's Research Hospital in Memphis, died on Jan. 8 at his home in that city. He was 95. The cause was 
 Maj. Gen. John W. Kaine, who rose from private to become commander of New York's 77th Infantry Division of the Army Reserve, died on Wednesday at Winthrop University Hospital. He was 79 and lived in Williston Park, L.I. He had a lengthy illness, complicated by surgery, according to 
 Emanuel Grunberg, a bacteriologist who developed drugs against infectious diseases, died on Jan. 16 at his home in Delray Beach, Fla. A former resident of North Caldwell, N.J., he was 72. The cause was cardiac arrest, according to the Dancy Funeral Home in Caldwell. Dr. Grun
 Harold Fieldsteel, formerly a top financial strategist for the Seagram Company, died last Saturday at Winthrop Hospital in Mineola, L.I. He was 72 and lived in Garden City, L.I. The cause of death was cancer, a spokesman for the company said. Mr. Fieldsteel worked in New Yor
 James P. Grant, the American foreign aid expert who in 1980 became executive director of Unicef and made it into a major force for helping children, died yesterday at Northern Westchester Hospital Center in Mount Kisco, N. Y. He was 72 and lived in Croton, N.Y. The cause of death wa
 Dr. Norman Plummer, a longtime general medical director for the New York Telephone Company and an official of the United States Army's Influenza Commission, which helped develop the influenza vaccine, died on Wednesday at the William Hill Manor Health Care Center in Easton, Md. He was 94.  
 Richard A. Moore, a lawyer and communications executive who served as special counsel to President Richard M. Nixon and was Ambassador to Ireland, died Friday at his home in Washington. He was 81 years old. The cause of death was prostate cancer, said his daughter, Kate L. Moore.   
 James P. Grant, the American foreign aid expert who in 1980 became executive director of Unicef and made it into a major force for helping children, died on Saturday in Northern Westchester Hospital Center in Mount Kisco, N. Y. He was 72 and lived in Croton, N. Y. The cause of death
 Dr. Leopoldo M. Falicov, a theoretical physicist and professor emeritus at the University of California at Berkeley, died on Tuesday at the Alta Bates Hospital in Berkeley. He was 61. The cause was cancer of the esophagus, the university said. Dr. Falicov worked in condensed
 Viscount Paul de Rosiere, an international businessman who was an executive for the Cartier and Harry Winston jewelry companies, died on Jan. 19 at the Hospice of Palm Beach, in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 87 and had lived in Palm Beach since his retirement in 1988. The cause was endomy
 Philip Burton, a stage director and actor and the foster father of Richard Burton, died on Saturday at the William Crane Gray Inn nursing home in Davenport, Fla. He was 90. He had had a severe stroke a few days earlier, a spokesman for the home said. It was in the late 1930'
 Ralph W. Nicholson, a former advertising executive and senior assistant postmaster general of the United States, died on Jan. 1 in his home in Marshall, Va. He was 78. The cause was heart failure, said Matthew B. Coffey of Washington, a friend and former colleague In 1961, P
 Dr. Charles A. Flood, a gastroenterologist who taught generations of students at the Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons and other institutions, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 90. The cause was heart failure, said his son Charles Jr.. Dr. Flood, who 
 Jeffrey P. Beck, a flamboyant merger-and-acquisition specialist on Wall Street who rose to prominence in the 1980's, died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 48 and lived in Manhattan. The cause of death was a heart attack, his wife, Anna, said. Mr. Beck played a majo
 The Rev. Paul Newton Poling, a Presbyterian clergyman who helped direct his church's agenda on peace and social issues in the years immediately after World War II, died on Jan. 19 at the White Acres Retirement Center in El Paso, where he lived. He was 92. The cause was complications
 Richard Lowell Neas, an interior designer and decorative painter known for his lyrical trompe l'oeil murals, died on Saturday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital in Manhattan. He was 67. The cause was cancer, Dennis W. O'Brien, his partner and longtime companion, said. Born
 Solomon D. Erulkar, a neurophysiologist and professor emeritus at the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, died on Jan. 19 at his home in Bala-Cynwyd, Pa., a suburb of Philadelphia. He was 70. His death was caused by complications from heart surgery, said his son Matthew. 
