 David G. Roth, an official of the American Jewish Committee who was the organization's chief liaison to ethnic groups, died on Saturday at Rush Presbyterian St. Vincent Hospital in Chicago. He was 55 and lived in Riverwoods, Ill. The cause was complications from heart surgery he had
 Edward F. Johnson, the founder and director of the Johnson Redbook Service, which had grown from a typical brokerage firm analyst's report into an influential retailing research publication, died on Saturday in Brick Township, N.J. He was 73 and was also the Mayor of Bay Head, N.J. 
 Joseph H. Mazo, a dance writer and an editor at Dance Magazine, was found dead in his Manhattan apartment on Friday. He was 56. The cause was heart disease, the Medical Examiner's Office said. Mr. Mazo wrote three books on dance. "Dance Is a Contact Sport," published in 1975
 Laurindo Almeida, a Brazilian guitarist who helped introduce Brazilian music in the United States and recorded with the Modern Jazz Quartet, Herbie Mann and Stan Kenton, died on Wednesday at the Valley Presbyterian Hospital in Van Nuys, Calif. He was 77. The cause was leukemia, said
 Rufus R. Hessberg, a former paratroop surgeon who became one of the country's leading experts in aerospace medicine, died on Thursday at Alexandria Hospital in Virginia. He was 74 and lived in Upper Marlboro, Md. The cause was apparently a heart attack, said Pamela Day, managing edi
 Verner E. Suomi, a meteorologist who developed weather-forecasting technology that makes it easier to plan space missions, agricultural irrigation and family picnics, died Sunday at University Hospital in Madison, Wis. He was 79. Dr. Suomi died of congestive heart failure, said a sp
 Alexander Boyd Hawes, a lawyer who worked in various Federal agencies and had a private practice in Washington for many years, died yesterday at his summer home in Little Compton, R.I. He was 88 and lived in Washington. Mr. Hawes served in the Administration of President Franklin D.
 The singer and violinist Canray Fontenot, a leading exponent of the Creole music of southwestern Louisiana, died on Saturday at his home in Welsh, La. He was 72. The cause was lung cancer, said his daughter Joyce Windoskey. Mr. Fontenot played music that took many of its cue
 Dr. Howard G. Bruenn, a naval physician who attended to President Franklin D. Roosevelt in the year before his death, died on Saturday in Sorrento, Me. He was 90 years old. Mr. Bruenn and his wife, Dorothy, had a summer home in Maine, but kept their permanent residence in the Riverd
 Paul Harding Douglas, an AIDS researcher at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center and co-author of two reference books on the disease, died on Friday at New York Hospital. He was 37 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was AIDS, said Dr. Michael F. Giordano, a colleague at the medic
 Dr. Thomas E. Morgan, a longtime Democratic member of Congress who had championed bipartisanship as head of the House Committee on International Relations for 18 years, died on Monday in Greene County Memorial Hospital in Waynesburg, Pa. He was 88 and lived in Fredericktown, Pa. For
 Timothy Mawson, who combined passions for literature and horticulture in an influential gardening bookstore in New Preston, Conn., died on Monday at his home in nearby Washington Depot. He was 54. The cause was AIDS, said his companion, Gael Hammer. Timothy Mawson Books and 
 A. James Donahue, an investment banker for Merrill Lynch, died on July 23 while canoeing on Middle Saranac Lake in Harrietstown, N.Y. He was 54. The cause was a heart attack, according to Merrill Lynch. Mr. Donahue was a managing director in Merrill Lynch's financial institu
 Bernard Lustig, a retired biochemist and former director of research for Clairol, the Manhattan-based maker of cosmetics and toiletries, died on Sunday in Stamford Hospital in Connecticut. He was 92 and had lived in Stamford since 1942. Born in Kolomea, Austria, now Kolomyya, Ukrain
 Howard Henry Peckham, a historian of colonial and revolutionary America and an authority on rare Americana, died on July 6 at the Carolina Village retirement center in Hendersonville, N.C. He was 84 and had retired to Hendersonville in 1977. His death was reported this week by the U
 Msgr. John Joseph McClafferty, a Roman Catholic priest long associated with his church's national social and charitable work, died on Monday at the Carmel Richmond Nursing Home in Old Town, S.I. He was 89 and lived at the home and was its chaplain since 1981, after becoming pastor emeritus 
 John T. Ryan Jr., the retired chairman and chief executive of the Mine Safety Appliances Company, died on Monday at the Johns Hopkins Medical Center in Baltimore. Mr. Ryan, a resident of Pittsburgh, was 83. Mr. Ryan, whose father founded the company in 1914 with George H. Dieke, joi
 Murray H. Finley, the labor leader who led the final, innovative campaign that forced the J. P. Stevens Company to accept union contracts in 1980, died on Monday at the University of Michigan Hospital in Ann Arbor. Mr. Finley, who was 73, had moved to Ann Arbor after his retirement 
 Stephen Roth, a London-based human rights official for the World Jewish Congress, died last Thursday in Royal Free Hospital in London. A London resident, he was 79. The cause of death was a heart attack, a spokesman for the American Jewish Congress, Stephen Steiner, said Tuesday.   
 Edward P. Whittemore, a writer best known for his exotic "Jerusalem Quartet," a series of novels set in that city from the late 19th century until well after World War II, died yesterday at a hospice in Riverdale, the Bronx. He was 62 and most recently lived in Manhattan. The cause 
 Frank W. Cyr, an authority on rural education who was called the Father of the Yellow School Bus for his work in establishing national standards for school buses, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Stamford, N.Y. He was 95 and had lived in Stamford, in the Catskills, since retiring in 196
 Irwin Bazelon, a composer whose angular, rhythmically complex and sometimes jazz-tinged works evoke the tension, energy and restless drama of contemporary urban life, died on Wednesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 73 and had homes in Manhattan and Sagaponack, L.I. The
 Ralph H. Smith, who gave new voice to an old calling by ringing his bell and crying "Hear, ye, hear, ye," died on Monday at a hospital in Cincinnati, leaving the suburban village of Mariemont without a town crier for the first time since 1961. He was 80. Mr. Smith, a lawyer in Cinci
 Arno Werner, a German-born bookbinder who was credited with keeping the craft alive in the United States, died on July 28 at his home in Hadlyme, Conn. He was 96. His work, often executed in painstakingly hand-tooled morocco leather, was marked by a sturdy yet elegant simplicity. Un
 Carl B. Rubin, a Federal district judge in Cincinnati who helped to settle lawsuits over a fire that killed 165 people and an anti-nausea drug that was suspected of causing birth defects, died on Wednesday at the University of Cincinnati Hospital. He was 75. The cause was cancer, ho
 Jack Neville Berkman, a communications executive and philanthropist, died on Thursday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 90. At his death, Mr. Berkman was chairman of the Associated Group, a Pittsburgh-based enterprise involved in cable television, cellular tele
 John Coolidge, arts professor emeritus and former director of the Fogg Art Museum at Harvard University, died on Monday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 81 and lived in Cambridge, Mass. Born in Cambridge on Dec. 16, 1913, Mr. Coolidge held a bachelor's degree from
 Agha Hasan Abedi, the shadowy Pakistani businessman who founded the infamous Bank of Commerce and Credit International, which cheated depositors in more than 70 countries out of $15 billion, died yesterday at the Aga Khan Hospital in Karachi. He was 74 and had been in ill health since heart
 Agha Hasan Abedi, the shadowy Pakistani businessman who founded the infamous Bank of Commerce and Credit International, which cheated depositors in more than 70 countries out of $12 billion, died on Saturday at the Aga Khan Hospital in Karachi. He was 74 and had been in ill health since hea
 Jerzy Toeplitz, a film historian who headed film schools in Poland and Australia, died on July 24 in Warsaw. He was 85 and had returned to Poland from Australia in 1979. His death was reported in Britain on Wednesday by The Guardian and The Independent. Mr. Toeplitz, who was
 Max Sloan, who left school after the eighth grade to go to work selling fruit and vegetables from a pushcart, and then went on to become president of Sloan's Supermarkets, died on Saturday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 83 and lived in Hollywood, Fla. He had cancer, said h
 Robin Clark, a correspondent for The Philadelphia Inquirer, was killed on Friday in a traffic accident near Los Angeles, where he had been based since 1993. He was 40. The Inquirer said the Santa Monica police reported that Mr. Clark -- who had been covering the O. J. Simpson trial 
 Don Patinkin, an eminent American-born Israeli economist who served as president of Hebrew University, died yesterday in Jerusalem. He was 73. The cause of death was lymphoma, some friends in the United States said. Mr. Patinkin is best known for his book, "Money, Interest a
 Gay Wilson Allen, a scholar and biographer who was a leading authority on Walt Whitman, died on Sunday at Rex Hospital in Raleigh, N.C. He was 92 and had moved to Raleigh in 1988 from Oradell, N.J. Professor Allen retired in 1969 from New York University's English department, which 
 Harry Tarleton Jenkins Jr., a retired Navy captain who spent more than seven years imprisoned in North Vietnam, much of it in solitary confinement, died last Wednesday in the crash of his light plane in Arizona. He was 68 and lived in Coronado, Calif. Captain Jenkins was piloting a 
 J. Howard Marshall 2d, a lawyer, oil industry executive and philanthropist, died Saturday at Park Plaza Hospital in Houston, where he lived. He was 90. Mr. Marshall was known for the role he played in the family feud that has been going on for more than a decade at Koch Industries, 
 Lord Lever, a wealthy investor who served as a Cabinet minister and economic adviser to two British Prime Ministers, died on Sunday at his home in London. He was 81. His family did not disclose the cause of death. Born Harold Lever, he was a rarity in being both wealthy and 
 Robert Penniman Hulburd, a former chairman of the German department and administrator at Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass., died on Saturday in the L. W. Blake Hospital in Bradenton, Fla. He was 74 and lived in Holmes Beach, Fla. Mr. Hulburd, whose father was chairman of the mathem
 The agent who has led the investigation into the Oklahoma City bombing was named the Federal Bureau of Investigation's second-ranking official yesterday and said the bureau would have to devote even more resources to combat terrorism in the United States. The agent, Weldon L. Kenned
 Daniel Kearns, a theatrical manager who worked on and off Broadway, died on Monday at the Hospice at Mission Hill, outside Boston. He was 39. The cause was complications from AIDS, said his press representatives, Boneau/Bryan-Brown. Mr. Kearns was company manager for "Penn a
 David Begelman, the amiable Hollywood executive whose bizarre check-forging spree cost him his job as president of Columbia Pictures in 1978 but did not halt his career, was found dead yesterday in a room at the Century Plaza Hotel near his home in Los Angeles. He was 73. A spokesma
 Edward Thompson, a lawyer and firefighter's son who became a New York City Fire Commissioner as well as a judge, died on Saturday at his home in Babylon, L.I. He was 82. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Thompson was a highly visible commissioner under Mayor Robert 
 Frank Massi, a former president and chief executive of the Hearst Corporation, died on Monday at his home in Garden City, L.I. He was 85.  He also had a home in Boca Raton, Fla. At his death, he was a director of Hearst. Mr. Massi joined Hearst in 1934, when the company bought The P
 Hugh Borton, an authority on Japan who became president of Haverford College after heading Columbia University's East Asian Institute, died on Sunday at his home in Conway, Mass. He was 92. Dr. Borton was in the State Department from 1942 to 1948 and was chief of its Japanese affair
 Alan L. Weiner, who catered to scholarly bibliophiles as purveyor of sometimes rare, generally out of print and often dusty books at his Academy Bookstore on West 18th Street, took his life on Aug. 2 at the Gramercy Park Hotel. He was 53 and lived in Manhattan. His sister, Linda Ros
 Frank Maya, a comedian and performance artist who was one of the first openly gay male comics to gain a foothold in mainstream stand-up comedy, died on Monday at his parents' home in Manhattan. He was 45. The cause was heart failure related to AIDS, said his sister Janet. Mr
 George N. Lindsay, a New York lawyer who was active in politics and human rights in the United States and abroad, died on Tuesday.  He was 75. Mr. Lindsay, a brother of former Mayor John V. Lindsay of New York, lived in Syosset, L.I., and in Manhattan. He died of a heart attack whil
 Jerry Garcia, whose gentle voice and gleaming, chiming guitar lines embodied the psychedelic optimism of the Grateful Dead for three decades, died in his sleep yesterday at Serenity Knolls, a residential drug treatment center in Forest Knolls, Calif. He was 53. A spokesman for the b
 Alan S. Bridge, a Conceptual artist and magazine publisher, was killed on Saturday when he was struck by a craft, possibly a jet ski, while diving in Shinnecock Inlet off Southampton, L.I. He was 50 and lived in Manhattan. In 1980, Mr. Bridge started what he called his Apology Line,
 Milton Katz, a teacher and scholar of international law at Harvard Law School and former administrator of the United States Marshall Plan in Europe, died on Wednesday at Beth Israel Hospital in Brookline, Mass. He was 87 and lived in Cambridge, Mass. Professor Katz joined the school
 Dexter Means Bullard Jr., who expanded psychiatric care for children and adolescents at the mental hospital that his grandfather founded in Rockville, Md., died on Thursday at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 66 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md. The cause was cancer, his family
 Helmut Gernsheim, a one-time commercial photographer who helped create the academic study of the history of photography, became one of its most influential and prolific practitioners and assembled one of the most extensive private collections of early photographs, died on July 20 in Switzer
 Nathaniel M. Gerstenzang, a former assistant foreign editor of The New York Times, died yesterday at Evanston Hospital in Illinois. He was 87 and had moved to Wilmette, Ill., in November from Maplewood, N.J. During his tenure, Mr. Gerstenzang helped oversee foreign coverage of two M
 F. Romuald Spasowski, once an ardent Polish Communist and Poland's Ambassador in Washington who then defected dramatically at the height of the Solidarity crisis in 1981, died on Wednesday at his home in suburban Oakton, Va. He was 74. The cause of death was cancer, his family said.
 Harry Lipsig, the New York lawyer who won millions of dollars in damage awards for clients who had been widowed, orphaned, crippled, maimed or merely inconvenienced through someone else's negligence, died Friday night at his home in Manhattan. He was 93. In a career that spanned six
 Phil Harris, the brash, bourbon-swigging, fast-drawling band leader who became a comic radio star as a Jack Benny sidekick in the 1930's and then enchanted new generations of fans as the unlikely voice of Baloo the Bear in Walt Disney's "Jungle Book," died on Friday night at his home at the
 John Helm Pratt, a Federal judge in Washington whose rulings over nearly three decades helped to shape legal definitions of civil rights and discrimination, died on Aug. 11 at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 84. Judge Pratt served on the United States District Court in Washingto
 Kenneth Lo, an internationally known authority on Chinese cuisine, died on Friday in London, where he lived. He was 81. The cause was cancer, The Associated Press said. Mr. Lo wrote more than 30 books on Chinese cooking and more than a million copies of them were sold in Bri
 Mickey Mantle, the most powerful switch-hitter in baseball history and the successor to Babe Ruth and Joe DiMaggio as the symbol of the long reign of the New York Yankees, died of cancer yesterday in Dallas. He was 63. Mantle died at 2:10 A.M. Eastern time at Baylor University Medic
 Phil Harris, the brash, bourbon-swigging, fast-drawling band leader who became a comic radio star as a Jack Benny sidekick in the 1930's and then enchanted new generations of fans as the unlikely voice of Baloo the Bear in Walt Disney's "Jungle Book," died on Friday night at his home at the
 Wilbur Stark, a radio, television and film producer, died on Friday at New York Hospital. He was 81. The cause was cancer, said Naura Hayden, a friend. Mr. Stark, who was born in Brooklyn, made a name for himself in radio in New York in the 1940's when he produced "Movie Mat
 Abraham W. Geller, an architect known as much for his steadfast commitment to the modernist gospel as for the buildings he designed, died yesterday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. He was 83. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, Marion Geller. Mr. Geller's sm
 Carl Wartenburg, a leader in efforts to widen educational opportunities for disadvantaged youths and to curb alcohol abuse among young people, died last Wednesday while vacationing in the Rangeley Lakes region of Maine. He was 48 and lived in Swarthmore, Pa. The cause was a heart at
 Charles E. Adkins, former president of Briarcliff College in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y., died on Sunday at St. Luke's Hospital in Utica, N.Y. He was 85 and lived in Syracuse. Mr. Adkins became president of Briarcliff in 1960, when it was a two-year women's college. It adopted a full fou
 Crosby Noyes Boyd, a retired president and former chairman of the Washington Star Newspaper Company, died on Saturday at his summer home in Cape May, N.J. He was 92 and also lived on Islamorada in the Florida Keys. His father, George W. Boyd, was a vice president of the Pennsylvania
 Harold Lamberg, a philanthropist and retired manufacturer, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Hospital. A resident of the Upper East Side of Manhattan, he was 87. At his death he was the president of the Anne & Harry J. Reicher Foundation, a charity that provides grants for health-care a
 Harold M. Koch, a designer and importer of carpets who was the brother of former Mayor Edward I. Koch, died on Sunday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 74 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was liver failure after open-heart surgery about three weeks ago, the former May
 John Cameron Swayze, one of television's first evening news anchors and the man who introduced the sentence "It takes a licking and keeps on ticking" into popular culture as the voice of Timex watches, died yesterday at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 89. Mr. Swayze, whose crisp b
 Lawrence Dunbar Reddick, a historian, biographer of Martin Luther King Jr. and former curator of the New York Public Library's Schomburg Collection, died on Aug. 2 at Pendleton Memorial Methodist Hospital in New Orleans. He was 85 and had lived in New Orleans in recent years. In 193
 Dr. Robert Hoppock, who had such a tough time finding his niche in life that he devoted his career to making it easier for others to find theirs, died on Aug. 5 at a nursing home in Vista, Calif. As the first professor of counselor education at New York University, he is widely regarded as 
 John Cameron Swayze, one of television's first evening news anchors and the man who introduced the line, "It takes a licking and keeps on ticking," into popular culture as the voice of Timex watches, died on Tuesday at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 89. Mr. Swayze, whose dark goo
 Lawrence R. Houston, an architect of the Central Intelligence Agency who built the legal foundation on which it rests and the facades behind which it hid, died on Tuesday. He was 82. He died of a heart attack while vacationing in Westport, Mass., said his friend Walter Pforzheimer, 
 Stanley Asimov, a journalist and newspaper executive whose career spanned 40 years at Newsday on Long Island, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 66 and lived in Roslyn Heights, L.I. The cause was leukemia, his family said. Born in Brooklyn, Mr. Asimo
 Howard Koch, a Hollywood screenwriter who won an Academy Award as one of the authors of the film "Casablanca," died yesterday at Kingston Hospital in Kingston, N.Y. He was 93 and lived in Woodstock, N.Y. In a long, diverse career, Mr. Koch wrote plays as well as screenplays, was the
 Hugh Miller Raup, a botanist and plant ecologist who was director of the Harvard Forest for 21 years, died on Aug. 10 at a nursing home in Sister Bay, Wis. He was 94 and formerly lived in Petersham, Mass. From 1946 until he retired in 1967 as a professor of forestry at Harvard Unive
 Marco Wachter, designer of a men's wear line for Mondo Inc. of New York, of which he was a founding partner, died last Saturday in Key Biscayne, Fla., where he was on vacation. He was 59 and lived in Manhattan and Florence, Italy. The cause was a heart attack, said Ben Greszes, with
 Marty Paich, a conductor, composer, orchestrator and arranger, died on Saturday at his home in Santa Ynez, Calif. He was 70. The cause was colon cancer, said Mark Hartley, his manager. Mr. Paich, whose full name was Martin Louis Paich, was a native of Oakland, Calif. He stud
 Marvin Becker, president of the Network Polymers Corporation and an innovator in specialty plastics, died Aug. 9 in Branford, Conn. He was 67. The cause was stomach cancer, according to his brother, Gary, an economist at the University of Chicago and a winner of the Nobel Prize.    
 Terry Miller, who turned his love of the theater, his devotion to Greenwich Village and his fondness for obscure facts into an eclectic, if hand-to-mouth, career as a writer, photographer, collector, archivist, researcher and historian, died on Tuesday at the Rivington House Nursing Home in
 Wilson D. McKerrow, a leader in social work who spent his career working to protect abused and neglected children, died on Aug. 10 in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 89. Mr. McKerrow retired as executive director in 1972 after 32 years with the Brooklyn Society for the Prevention of Cruelt
 Dr. Dan W. Dodson, a Texas sharecropper's son who submitted his sun-baked boyhood prejudices to such a searing intellectual analysis that he became one of the nation's leading advocates of racial equality, died on Aug. 5 in Austin, Tex. He was 88 and had lived in Texas since 1972, when he r
 Julio Caro Baroja, a noted Basque anthropologist and historian whose many books on Spanish society, history and customs have become texts for generations of students, died on Friday in his home in Vera de Bidasoa in northern Spain. He was 80. Born on Nov. 13, 1914, in Madrid, Mr. Ca
 Robert S. Hirschfield, a political scientist, professor and author who was the dean of communications at the City University of New York, died yesterday at the Mount Sinai Medical Center. Dr. Hirschfield, who lived in Manhattan, was 66. His wife, Muriel, said the cause of death was 
 Peter Shaw, an English professor who crossed academic disciplines to write a biography of John Adams in the 1970's and then became a leader of the neoconservative academic movement, died on Thursday at Roosevelt Hospital. He was 58 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was heart disease
 Robert C. Frasure, the Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for European and Canadian Affairs, died today when the vehicle he was in riding in plunged down a hillside outside Sarajevo in Bosnia. He was 53. Mr. Frasure was part of a team of American diplomats who were traveling to Sar
 Johnny Adams, the Hall of Fame trainer who as a jockey won horse racing's Preakness Stakes, died on Saturday at his home in Arcadia, Calif., after a lengthy illness. He was 79. Mr. Adams's riding career began in the early 1930's. He rode 3,270 winners, which earned more than $9.7 mi
 Peter Shaw, an English professor who crossed academic disciplines to write a biography of John Adams in the 1970's and then became a leader of the neoconservative academic movement, died on Thursday at Roosevelt Hospital. He was 58 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was heart disease
 George Bekefi, a teacher and researcher known for his contributions to plasma physics, particularly in the field of extremely high-power microwave generators, died last Thursday at his home in Brookline, Mass. He was 70. The cause was leukemia, his family said. Dr. Bekefi re
 John Gilmore, a tenor saxophonist who helped define the sound of the avant-garde during four decades with the Sun Ra Arkestra, died on Sunday at Germantown Hospital in Philadelphia. He was 63 and lived in Philadelphia. The cause was emphysema, said Danny Thompson, a longtime bariton
 Julius Monk, the debonair impresario of satiric revues and the diviner of generations of talented performers, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82. In a series of New York supper clubs and cabarets -- the Ruban Bleu in the early 1940's, the Downstairs, the Upstairs a
 Jurgen Schneider, a teacher and balletmaster at American Ballet Theater, the Stuttgart Ballet and the Royal Ballet, drowned on Aug. 15 in Miami Beach, where he lived. He was 59. Mr. Schneider trained at the government ballet school in East Berlin, where he was born, and at the State
 Marcus Wayne Chenault Jr., who killed the mother of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. at a Sunday service in Ebenezer Baptist Church in Atlanta in 1974, died on Saturday at a hospital in the Atlanta suburb of Riverdale. He was 44. Mr. Chenault was serving a life sentence at the st
 Philip Semark, an arts administrator and a founder of Dance U.S.A., a service organization, died on Thursday at Sayville Hospital on Long Island. He was 49 and lived in Occidental, Calif. The cause was AIDS, said Richard LeBlond, a friend and colleague. Mr. Semark was born i
 Dr. Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar, a Nobel laureate in physics whose discovery about the evolution of stars pointed toward the existence of "black holes," died yesterday at the University of Chicago Hospitals. He was 84 and lived in Chicago. The cause was a heart attack, said a spokesm
 Dr. Alan Yagoda, an oncologist who specialized in genito-urinary cancer research and contributed a new treatment for metastatic bladder tumors, died on Saturday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 60 and lived in Pleasantville, N.Y. The cause was complications from abdom
 George A. Christie, former chief economist and vice president of the F. W. Dodge division of the McGraw-Hill Companies, died on Monday at the Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. Mr. Christie, a resident of Franklin Lakes, N.J., was 67. The cause of death was cancer, his wife, Marjori
 John Lotas, the original producer of Hal Holbrook's "Mark Twain Tonight!" in New York, died on Friday after being struck by a car in Austin, Tex. He was 74. Mr. Holbrook had been performing his one-man show around the United States for about eight years in the 1950's when Mr. Lotas 
 Nanni Loy, an Italian director whose work included dramatic films on the Italian Resistance, zany tragicomedies set in Naples and popular television programs, died on Monday at a beach resort near Rome. He was 69. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Giovanni Loy w
 William Strethen (Wild Bill) Davis, a leading jazz arranger, pianist and organist, died last Thursday in Moorestown, N.J. He was 77. The cause was a stroke, said his daughter, Kathryn Malvern. Mr. Davis was born in Glasgow, Mo., and was reared in Kansas. He studied music wit
 David Skipsey, associate conservator of paintings at the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco, died on Monday after being hit by a car while riding his bicycle home from work. He was 29 and lived in San Francisco. From September 1990 to February of this year, Mr. Skipsey was assistant
 James Truitte, a lead dancer with the companies of Lester Horton and Alvin Ailey and an authority on Horton's technique and choreography, was found dead on Monday at his home in Cincinnati. He was 72. A spokeswoman for the Cincinnati coroner's office said yesterday that the cause of
 Alfred Eisenstaedt, the German-born photographer whose pioneering images for Life magazine helped define American photojournalism, died on Wednesday while vacationing on Martha's Vineyard in Massachusetts. He was 96 and lived in Manhattan. Over a career that lasted more than 50 year
 The Rev. Dr. Edwin H. Rian, whose ministry was mainly devoted to education, including 15 years as assistant to the president of Princeton Theological Seminary, died on Tuesday at the Pacific Region Health Care Center in San Diego. He was 95 and lived in San Diego. In a career that s
 Jay S. Garon, a New York literary agent who transformed his career and the world of publishing with a single call to a Mississippi lawyer in 1987, died on Tuesday at St. Clare's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 71 and had homes in New York, Fire Island and Key West, Fla. His lawyer and
 Leslie Berger, a clinical psychologist and educator who developed a statewide remedial education program and taught a course on the effects of the Holocaust on the descendants of its survivors, died on Aug. 9 at White Plains Hospital. He was 67 and lived in White Plains. The cause w
 Lord White, a co-founder of the British conglomerate Hanson P.L.C. and one of the most successful takeover artists of the 1970's and 1980's, died on Wednesday at the U.C.L.A. Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 72. A spokesman for Hanson said Lord White died of a respiratory ailme
 Rabbi Isaac Lewin, a scholar of Jewish history and the history of Jewish law who often spoke for Orthodox Jewry before international bodies, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 89 and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. Rabbi Lewin was professor emeritus of J
 Ralph A. Hart, a company leader who helped both Colgate-Palmolive and Heublein penetrate foreign markets, died on Tuesday in Delray Beach, Fla. He was 91 and lived in Delray Beach. Mr. Hart joined Colgate in Canada in the early 1930's. A resourceful salesman, he increased the Americ
 Ralph Pomerance, whose architectural firm, Pomerance & Breines, designed more than 400 buildings, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 87. Born in Manhattan, Mr. Pomerance was a graduate of the Carnegie Institute of Technology. He opened his own office in 1933 and two 
 B. Dale Davis, a journalist who ended his 45-year newspaper career in 1989 as editor and publisher of The Santa Barbara News-Press in California, died on Thursday at his home in Cape May, N.J. He was 73. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Davis headed The News-Press 
 Cleveland Robinson, a veteran labor official and civil-rights advocate, died on Wednesday at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine's hospital in the Bronx. A resident of the Bronx, he was 80. The cause was kidney failure, his family said. A former adviser on labor to the R
 John S. Badeau, who served as United States Ambassador to Cairo from 1961 to 1964, died yesterday in Monroe Village, a retirement community in Jamesburg, N.J. He was 92. Mr. Badeau, an engineer, educator and ordained minister, was widely known throughout the Arab world when Presiden
 Dr. Benjamin W. Watkins, a podiatrist and chiropractor who played a prominent role in politics and community affairs in New York City and who served for years as the honorary mayor of Harlem, died on Friday at his home in St. Albans, Queens. He was 73. The cause was congestive heart
 Maurice Rosenburg, a professor at Columbia University's School of Law who became a well-known advocate for judicial reforms on the state and Federal levels, died on Friday at his home in White Plains. He was 75. The cause was a progressive neurological disease, a son, Dr. Richard Ro
 Dr. James David Robertson, a retired professor at Duke University's medical school who conducted innovative research on the structure of membranes, died on Aug. 11 at his home in Durham, N.C. He was 72. He had leukemia, said Dr. Michael K. Reedy, a professor at the medical school.  
 Jacob D. Fuchsberg, a prominent trial lawyer and judge who served on the Court of Appeals, the state's highest court, from 1975 to 1983, died yesterday at United Hospital in Port Chester, N.Y. He was 82 and lived in Harrison, N.Y. The cause was cardiac arrest, said his son-in-law Ri
 Maurice Rosenberg, a professor at Columbia University's School of Law who became a well-known advocate for judicial reforms on the state and Federal levels, died on Friday at his home in White Plains. He was 75. The cause was a progressive neurological disease, a son, Dr. Richard Ro
 Bernard Rifkin, a union leader and an educator who helped create the country's first fully accredited labor college, died on Friday at his home in lower Manhattan. He was 84. Mr. Rifkin retired in 1976 as a director of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees
 Cesare Gianturco, a pioneering radiologist and prolific inventor of medical devices, died on Friday at Carle Hospital in Urbana, Ill. He was 90 and lived in Savoy, Ill. As a radiologist, Dr. Gianturco was regarded as an originator of the specialty of the use of radiology for the tre
 David Warrilow, an actor who was a consummate interpreter of the works of Samuel Beckett, died in Paris on Aug. 17. He was 60. The cause was AIDS, said Jed Wheeler, a New York theatrical manager and friend, who announced Mr. Warrilow's death yesterday. Mr. Warrilow was a fou
 Dr. Peter Gergely, who pioneered advances in structural engineering and fought in the Hungarian Revolution of 1956, died on Friday at his home in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 59 years old. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Kinga. Dr. Gergely's research laid the groundwork for impr
 Page Smith, an iconoclastic historian and prolific author of books on subjects as diverse as John Adams, Thomas Jefferson, famous women and the importance of chickens, died early Monday morning at his daughter's home in Santa Cruz, Calif. He was 77. The cause of death was leukemia, 
 Stephen M. Goldfeld, a Princeton University professor and former provost who served on the Council of Economic Advisers during the Carter Administration, died on Friday at his home in Princeton Township, N.J. Dr. Goldfeld was 55. The cause of death was cancer, said Jacquelyn Savani,
 William Summer Johnson, an organic chemist at Stanford University who developed more efficient techniques for making complex chemical compounds for medical use, died on Aug. 19 at his home in Portola Valley, Calif., near Stanford. He was 82. He had been ill with circulatory and hear
 John Costello, a Scottish-born historian who shed new light on aspects of World War II and helped to untangle the webs of cold war intrigue, died on Saturday while on a flight from London to Miami. He was 52 and lived in Miami and Manhattan. His New York agent, John Hawkins, said th
 Lawrence W. Lamm, a pioneer in book packaging, died on Monday at a nursing home in Stamford, Conn. He was 99 and lived in Manhattan. As a book packager, he would conceive the idea for a book or series of books. When a publisher accepted the idea, Mr. Lamm would select an appropriate
 Bartlett Jere Whiting, a professor emeritus of English at Harvard University who was renowned for his compilations of proverbs and for his classes on Chaucer, died last Thursday at Waldo County Hospital in Belfast, Me. He was 90 and lived in Northport, Me., in the house where he was born.  
 Fischer Black, an economist whose groundbreaking work in financial theory helped revolutionize modern Wall Street, died yesterday at his home in New Canaan, Conn., after a yearlong battle with cancer, his family said. Mr. Black, 57, was a partner in the investment banking firm of Go
 Frank Perry, the director of "David and Lisa," "Diary of a Mad Housewife," "Mommie Dearest," "On the Bridge" and other films, died on Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 65 and lived in Aspen, Colo. The cause was prostate cancer, said the writer Ba
 Gerald W. Breese, a sociologist who analyzed the structure and growth of large urban areas, particularly in the third world, died on Friday at the Meadow Lakes retirement community in Hightstown, N.J. He was 83. The cause was leukemia, his family said. Dr. Breese retired fro
