 Frederick I. Herzberg, a psychologist who became one of the most influential management teachers and consultants of the post-World War II era, died in Salt Lake City Jan. 19 from a heart attack and injuries sustained in a related fall, according to Mark Herzberg, his son. He was 76.        
 Pat Cetta, who with his brother, Mike, owned Sparks, a renowned New York steakhouse, died on Jan. 24. He was 66. The cause of death was a heart attack, Mike Cetta said. Sparks, at 210 East 46th Street, is the kind of clubby place where pinstriped executives can unburden them
 Alan Pryce-Jones, a London-born book critic, author and journalist who was editor of The Times Literary Supplement, the prestigious British weekly, for a decade, died on Jan. 22 in Galveston, Tex. He was 91 and lived in Newport, R.I. Mr. Pryce-Jones was viewed in the literary world 
 Alfred R. Zipf, a pioneer in computer technology and electronic banking and a former executive at the Bank of America, died on Jan. 1 in Oroville, Calif. He was 82. Mr. Zipf headed the equipment research department at Bank of America when he worked with the Stanford Research Institu
 Des Renford, who began marathon swimming at the age of 39 and went on to swim the English Channel in each of his 19 attempts, died of a heart attack on Dec. 31 while swimming in his local pool in Sydney, Australia. He was 72. Renford was a butcher, a barkeeper, a bookmaker and a min
 George McTurnan Kahin, an authority on Southeast Asia who was an influential critic of Washington's policy during the Vietnam War, died on Saturday at Strong Memorial Hospital in Rochester. He was 82 and lived in Ithaca, N.Y. Dr. Kahin (pronounced KAY-hin) retired in 1988 after 37 y
 William Eckart, a scenic designer whose innovative sets and costumes enlivened many Broadway productions during the 1950's and 60's, died on Jan. 24 in Dallas, where he lived. He was 79. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Working with his wife, Jean, Mr. Eckart w
 William McCleery, a playwright and editor, died on Jan. 16 at a hospital in Princeton, N.J. He was 88 and lived in Princeton. Mr. McCleery had two plays on Broadway in the 1940's, ''Hope for the Best,'' with Franchot Tone and Jane Wyatt, and ''Parlor Story,'' with Walter Abel. He al
 Adrian Lajous Martinez, a finance official who resigned his cabinet post in 1982 to protest the nationalization of the banks, died of a heart attack here on Jan. 24. He was 79. Mr. Lajous's refusal to endorse President Jose Lopez Portillo's takeover of the financial system ended his
 Gil Kane, a comic-book artist who infused the Atom, Green Lantern and other characters with vibrant new life even as his own artistic aspirations propelled him to draw comic books of Wagnerian operas, died on Monday at a hospital in Miami. He was 73 and lived in Aventura, Fla. The c
 Hobe Morrison, a longtime drama critic for Variety, died on Jan. 22. He was 95 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Morrison was a fixture of opening nights on Broadway for more than four decades, often writing two reviews a day: one for the New York edition of Variety, and a second for the 
 Dr. James V. Neel, whose work helped uncover the genetic basis of sickle cell anemia and who led extensive studies of radiation's effects on the survivors of the atomic bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, died on Tuesday at his home in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 84. The cause was cancer
 Robert John Milano, a self-made millionaire industrialist who briefly served Mayor Edward I. Koch as deputy mayor for economic development, died Saturday at a hospital in Palm Springs, Fla., where he lived. A former New York resident, he was 87. In January 1978, a newly minted Mayor
 T. Dennie Boardman, a retired businessman, died last Friday at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. He was 87 and lived in Chestnut Hill, Mass., and Palm Beach, Fla. Mr. Boardman retired from two family real estate firms, T. Dennie Boardman of Boston, and Munn, Hull & Boardman of
 Thomas Woodfin Keesee Jr., the retired chief executive of the Bessemer Securities Corporation, died Sunday in his sleep at a hospital near the family's Mount Kisco, N.Y., home, his son, Thomas W. Keese III, said yesterday. He was 84 and had been ill for some time. Mr. Keese was born
 A. E. van Vogt, a writer who smuggled raw emotion into modern science fiction, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 87 and lived in Los Angeles. Mr. van Vogt's most memorable stories were published from 1939 to 1951, a period often called science fiction's golden a
 Frank E. Morris, who was president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston from 1968 to 1988, died Monday at his home in Naples, Fla. He was 75. Earlier, Mr. Morris was an economist with the Federal Office of Price Stabilization and the Central Intelligence Agency, an assistant to the
 Rear Adm. Frederick B. Warder, a submariner whose exploits in World War II won him a Navy Cross and a nickname he detested, died on Tuesday at his home in Ocala, Fla. He was 95. As a lieutenant commander, he was skipper of the Seawolf from 1939 to 1943. The submarine resupplied the 
 Richard G. Kleindienst, who was President Richard M. Nixon's attorney general for less than a year in the Watergate era and who pleaded guilty to a crime in a peripheral scandal, died today at his home in Prescott, Ariz. He was 76. The cause was lung cancer, his wife, Margaret, said
 Lee Hills, who began a journalism career as a teenage reporter covering mining disasters in Utah, continued it as an editor by bringing Pulitzer Prizes and national renown to The Miami Herald and The Detroit Free Press, and finally spread the gospel of quality journalism around the country 
 Alan North, a character actor whose career spanned more than 50 years, died on Jan. 19 at a hospital near his home in Port Jefferson, N.Y. He was 79 and also had a home in Manhattan. The cause was kidney and lung cancer, his wife, June, said. Across five decades, Mr. North p
 Anthony Blum, a principal dancer with the New York City Ballet in the 1960's and 70's, died on Dec. 28 at the Wesley Health Center in Saratoga Springs, N.Y. He was 61 and lived in Saratoga Springs. The cause was complications from AIDS, said Patrick Lavin, a friend. Tall and
 David Levy, a television executive and producer who created ''The Addams Family'' series for ABC, died on Jan. 25 in Beverly Hills, Calif., where he lived. He was 87. After becoming vice president for programming at NBC in 1959, Mr. Levy helped to turn around the network with shows 
 Herbert I. Schiller, a teacher, writer and critic who studied the subject of communication, died on Jan. 29 in La Jolla, Calif. He was 80 and a longtime La Jolla resident. The cause of death was not disclosed. Dr. Schiller was trained as an economist, began studying the medi
 Ustad Alla Rakha, the most important tabla drummer of his generation, died Thursday at his home in Bombay. He was 80. He had a heart attack when he learned of the death of his daughter Razia during cataract surgery, said a spokesman for Moment Records and Zakir Hussain Management, w
 Dr. Clifford H. Keene, a health care executive who helped build the Kaiser Permanente system of staff doctors, hospitals and clinics into the nation's largest nonprofit provider of health care, died Jan. 25 at the Hospice of the Central Coast Counties in Monterey, Calif. He was 89. 
 Frederick Vanderbilt Field, who supported Communist causes in the 1930's, 40's and 50's and was once described as ''the Reds' pet blueblood,'' died Feb. 1 at the Walker Methodist Health Center in Minneapolis. A great-great-grandson of Commodore Cornelius Vanderbilt and a descendant of sever
 Philip Jones, a leading British trumpeter and a music educator, died on Jan. 17. He was 71 and lived in London and Switzerland. Mr. Jones was born in Bath, England, into a family of brass musicians. He began playing the trumpet as a boy, and in 1944 he won a scholarship to the Royal
 Samuel J. Silberman, a philanthropist and former cigar manufacturing executive, died on Jan. 29 in Manhattan. He was 84 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. Mr. Silberman was born in Manhattan, grew up in West Hartford, Conn., and attended Harvard College. In 1934, he went
 William S. Heckscher, a German-born art historian who fled Hitler's Germany and became a professor at Duke University and the director of its art museum, died on Nov. 27 at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 94. Professor Heckscher's wide-ranging scholarship included Rembrandt and a
 Edgar Bowers, a poet whose luminous, finely wrought prose earned him the Bollingen Prize, died on Friday at his home in San Francisco. He was 75. The cause was non-Hodgkins lymphoma, said a friend, Helen P. Trimpi of Palo Alto, Calif. Mr. Bowers was awarded the Bollingen Pri
 A milk carton made Dr. Gad Rausing, who died on Jan. 28 at the age of 77 in Montreux, Switzerland, one of the wealthiest men in the world. The Swedish-born Dr. Rausing, along with his younger brother, Hans, helped develop their father's idea for a new type of paper carton that exten
 Jack Scott, a prominent critic of organized athletics during the 1960's and early 1970's who later gained national attention when he was suspected of helping Patricia Hearst elude capture in the Symbionese Liberation Army case, died Sunday night in Eugene, Ore. He was 57. He had bee
 Christopher Rios, a 698-pound rapper who sold more than a million albums under the name Big Pun, died on Monday. He was 28. The cause was problems related to extreme obesity, said Joseph Cartagena, known as the rapper Fat Joe, who was also Mr. Rios's producer and manager. The Associ
 Claude Autant-Lara, the director who made his name with films like ''Devil in the Flesh'' and ''The Red and the Black'' and who made an infamous foray into far-right politics late in his life, died on Saturday in a clinic in Antibes in the south of France. He was 98. One of France's
 Doug Henning, the ebullient, shaggy-headed magician who sparked a renewed interest in the craft and breathed new life into some of history's most famous illusions, died on Monday in Los Angeles. He was 52 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was liver cancer, according to The Associa
 Morley Meredith, a versatile baritone who sang 40 roles in 31 seasons at the Metropolitan Opera, died last  Thursday at the Palm Beach Gardens Medical Center in Florida. He was 77. The cause was cancer, said Peter Clark, a spokesman for the Met. Mr. Meredith was born in Winn
 Arthur Seelen, a former actor who with his wife, Rozanne, owned the Drama Book Shop in Manhattan, the oldest performing-arts bookstore in the United States, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 76. In 1958 Mr. Seelen bought the store from Marjorie Seligman, who founded it
 David Alfred Boehm, a publishing entrepreneur who brought the Guinness Book of World Records to the United States and gave the book its name, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 86. The short, cherubic man with the immaculate goatee published thousands of titles at the c
 Frederic Lord, a mathematician whose doctoral work at Princeton a half-century ago laid the foundation for scoring the fill-in-the-bubble examinations that have tormented generations of No. 2-pencil-wielding applicants to colleges and graduate schools, died on Saturday at a nursing home in 
 Retired Lt. Gen. Claude Raymond, a feared chief of staff of the Haitian Army and minister of the interior and defense during the successive dictatorships of Francois (Papa Doc) Duvalier and his son, Jean-Claude (Baby Doc), died in the Haitian capital, Port-au-Prince, either Sunday or Wednes
 Gus Johnson, a drummer for some of the great jazz bands from the 1930's to the 50's, including those led by Count Basie and Benny Goodman, died on Sunday at Clear Creek Care Center in Westminster, Colo. He was 86 and lived in North Glen, Colo. Mr. Johnson was one of the most highly 
 Ion Gheorghe Maurer, who was prime minister, foreign minister and titular head of state of independent-minded Communist Romania from the 1950's to the 1970's, died Tuesday in Bucharest, the Romanian capital, where he lived. He was 97. Mr. Maurer, whose name is pronounced yon gay-OR-
 Pablo Elvira, a Puerto Rican-born baritone who became a regular member of the New York City Opera in the 1970's and 80's and sang frequently with the Metropolitan Opera, died on Saturday at his home in Bozeman, Mont. He was 62. A coroner's report said that he died of natural causes.
 Syd Cassyd, whose idea it was to found the Academy of Television Arts and Sciences, which gives the Emmy Awards, died on Friday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 91. Mr. Cassyd was working for a trade publication when he had the idea, and in 1946 he organized a meeting of influenti
 Wilfred Cantwell Smith, a scholar of Islam and comparative religions who took an early lead in urging intellectual understanding of religious pluralism and dialogue among faiths, died on Monday in a hospital in Toronto. He was 83 and lived in Toronto. The cause was congestive heart 
 Beau Jack, a one-time Georgia shoeshine boy who became the world lightweight champion and Madison Square Garden's biggest boxing draw of the 1940's, then toiled again at a bootblack's stand when the cheering stopped, died Wednesday at a nursing home in Miami. He was 78. The cause wa
 Geoffrey Ernest Maurice de Ste. Croix, a Marxist historian of ancient Greece and Rome whose erudition and sweeping, passionate style won the admiration of colleagues even when they disagreed with his conclusions, died on Feb. 5 at a hospital in Oxford, England. He was three days short of hi
 Roger Vadim, the French film director who turned Brigitte Bardot into an overnight star and potent sex symbol in his first movie, ''And God Created Woman,'' died today in a Paris hospital. He was 72. Friends said he had died of cancer. During a 40-year career in which he dir
 The Rev. Daniel Egan, whose tireless work in rehabilitating drug addicts brought him the nickname ''the Junkie Priest,'' died on Thursday at a hospital in Peekskill, N.Y. He was 84 and lived at the Graymoor Friary in Garrison, N.Y. Father Egan's work with addicts began in 1952, when
 George Koltanowski, an international chess master and author who excelled at beating opponents without looking at the board, died Feb. 5 in a hospital in San Francisco. He was 96. Mr. Koltanowski, known as Kolti, won several chess titles in Europe in the 1920's and 30's but was best
 Peter Tripp, a popular disc jockey in New York in the late 1950's whose career peaked when he stayed awake for more than eight days as a stunt but later plunged when he was found guilty of accepting thousands of dollars in payola, died Jan. 31 in a hospital in Northridge, Calif. He was 73. 
 Tom Landry, the taciturn Texan who coached the Dallas Cowboys for their first 29 seasons and led them to five Super Bowls, died last night in Dallas. He was 75. Landry died at Baylor University Medical Center, where since May he had periodically undergone treatment for acute myeloge
 Charles M. Schulz, the creator of ''Peanuts,'' the tender and sage comic strip starring Charlie Brown and Snoopy that is read by 355 million people around the world, died in his sleep on Saturday night at his home in Santa Rosa, Calif., just hours before his last cartoon ran in the Sunday n
 Lord Kitchener, whose sly wit and graceful melodies made him one of Trinidad's most beloved calypso songwriters, died on Friday at a hospital in Port of Spain, Trinidad. He was 77 and lived in Diego Martin, just outside Port of Spain. The cause was a severe infection brought on by a
 Screamin' Jay Hawkins, who howled, whooped, gurgled and shrieked his way through some of the most unhinged performances in rock history, died on Saturday in Neuilly-sur-Seine, a suburb of Paris. He was 70 and lived near Paris. The cause was multiple organ failure following emergency
 Tom Landry, the taciturn Texan who coached the Dallas Cowboys for their first 29 seasons and led them to five Super Bowls, died Saturday night in Dallas. He was 75. Landry died at Baylor University Medical Center, where since May he had periodically undergone treatment for acute mye
 Ed Linn, an author and magazine writer who collaborated with the maverick baseball owner Bill Veeck on three books and wrote widely on the Yankees and the Red Sox, died on Feb. 7 at his home in Spring Valley, Calif. He was 77. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Linn 
 George Jackson, who grew up in Harlem to become a movie producer, record company executive and Internet company founder, died yesterday at St. Luke's Roosevelt Hospital. He was 42. Mr. Jackson died after a stroke a week earlier, said Frank Cooper, his business partner. For t
 James M. Edwards, a senior partner in the law firm of Cravath, Swaine & Moore who counseled a number of multinational corporations, died Tuesday in a hotel in Grand Anse, Grenada, in the West Indies, where he was vacationing. He was 68 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was kidney ca
 The Rev. Richard A. McCormick, for many years the dominant American voice in Roman Catholic moral theology, especially on the daunting questions of medical ethics that have emerged in recent times, died on Saturday. He was 77 and lived at the Colombiere Center in Clarkston, Mich., a residen
 Ronald Roseman, an oboist, composer and teacher who was admired as a soloist and for his work with the New York Woodwind Quintet and the Bach Aria Group, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 66. The cause was cancer, said Ronald Cannava, a spokesman for Queens College, 
 Tony Lee Bettenhausen, a member of a prominent auto racing family who owned a racing team and drove Indy Cars for more than a decade, died yesterday in the crash of a small plane on a farm near Leesburg, Ky. He was 48. The crash, which occurred in midday about 30 miles from Lexingto
 William A. Andres, who led the Dayton Hudson Corporation's expansion from a regional department store chain to a national retailing powerhouse, died Wednesday of lymphoma in Fort Myers, Fla. He was 73. Under the leadership of Mr. Andres from 1976 through the sharp recession of the e
 Dr. Alvin M. Liberman, a retired professor of psychology and linguistics whose innovative research was influential in the study of speech perception, died on Jan. 13 at a hospital in Mansfield Center, Conn. He was 82 and lived in Mansfield Center. He died of complications after open
 Ervin Litkei, a music business executive who owned several companies but whose passion was the composition of patriotic music -- including marches dedicated to every United States president since Franklin D. Roosevelt -- died on Feb. 8 at his home in Manhattan. He was 78. His wife, 
 Harry William Prichett Sr., an architect of television's first attempt at interactive broadcasting with the 1950's children's program ''Winky Dink and You,'' died on Feb. 5 at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Prichett was a graphic artist at an 
 Joseph A. Rothschild, a longtime professor of history and political science at Columbia University and one of the nation's leading authorities on East Central Europe, died on Jan. 30 at his home in Manhattan. He was 68. He died of complications from a nonmalignant brain tumor, said 
 Walter Fletcher, who covered dog shows for The New York Times for more than 60 years and became something of a celebrity in the sport, died yesterday at a hospital in Niceville, Fla., where he lived in a retirement community. He was 93. Mr. Fletcher, who covered more than 40 edition
 Dr. Martin T. Orne, a psychiatrist whose work on hypnosis influenced its use around the world and helped limit its role in criminal investigations, died on Friday in Paoli, Pa. He was 72. The cause was cancer, his family said. Dr. Orne, who was also a psychologist, was consi
 Ronnie Robertson, a silver-medalist figure skater in the 1956 Winter Olympics and an ice-show star who was known as the Blur for his uncanny spins, died on Feb. 4 at a hospital in Fountain Valley, Calif. Robertson, who lived in Irvine, Calif., was 62. The cause was complications of 
 Victor Edward Cohn, a prize-winning science reporter, editor and columnist for The Washington Post and, earlier, The Minneapolis Tribune, died on Monday at his home in Washington. He was 80. The cause was lung cancer, The Post reported. Mr. Cohn was the author of several boo
 Edwin Singer, a Texas businessman, rancher and philanthropist, died on Saturday at a hospital in Houston. He was 85 and lived in Corpus Christi. Born in New York, Mr. Singer  moved to Corpus Christi in 1937 to engage in business ventures in oil and gas production, refining, banking,
 Isidore Dollinger, a former congressman from the Bronx who was also a state legislator, a district attorney and a judge, died Jan. 30 in a hospital in White Plains, where he had lived for the last several years. He was 96. A Democrat, Mr. Dollinger was a member of the House of Repre
 Ji Pengfei, who took part as China's foreign minister in the Chinese-United States summitry during President Richard M. Nixon's visit to Beijing in 1972, died on Feb. 10 in Beijing. He was 91. Mr. Ji was born into a peasant family in Shanxi province, and at first joined Chiang Kai-s
 Karsten Solheim, one of the world's leading innovators in golf club design, died on Wednesday at his home in Phoenix. He was 88. The cause was complications from Parkinson's disease, his family said. Mr. Solheim was the founder of Karsten Manufacturing and the creator of Pin
 Sam Osman, who emerged from the throng of pushcart peddlers on the Lower East Side of Manhattan to become the founder of Job Lot Trading, a legendary emporium with a staggeringly unpredictable mix of ultracheap merchandise, died Tuesday at a Manhattan hospital, his son Robby said. He was 88
 Artie Aidala, a New York boxing judge for almost four decades who was at ringside for the Muhammad Ali-Joe Frazier ''fight of the century'' in 1971, died Tuesday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 91. From the early 1940's until the late 1970's, Mr. Aidala was a familiar presence at ch
 Frank V. Fowlkes, a novelist, journalist and editorial consultant, died on Feb. 16 at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 58. The cause was lung cancer, the family said. Mr. Fowlkes wrote two suspense novels, ''The Peruvian Contracts'' (G.P. Putnam's Sons, 1976) and ''Majend
 Miles White, the imaginative costume designer for Rodgers and Hammerstein's first two Broadway hits, ''Oklahoma!'' and ''Carousel,'' and dozens of other musicals as well as movies, ballets, ice shows and circuses, died on Thursday. He was 85 and lived in Manhattan. In a career that 
 Walter Nils Frank, a Wall Street executive who served as chairman of the board of governors of the New York Stock Exchange in the mid-1960's, died on Tuesday at a retirement home in Hanover, N.H. He was 91 and had moved to Hanover in 1991. A member of the New York Stock Exchange for
 Goran Tunstrom, one of Scandinavia's most prolific contemporary authors, died on Feb. 5 at his home in Stockholm. He was 62. The apparent cause was heart failure, Swedish new reports said. Mr. Tunstrom published his first collection of poems in 1958. Since then he had produc
 Guy Waterman, who wrote books about hiking in the New England mountains and the preservation of their purity, died on Feb. 6. He was 67 and lived in East Corinth, Vt. Mr. Waterman climbed to the top of Mount Lafayette, a 5,249-foot peak in the White Mountains in northern New Hampshi
 Joachim-Ernst Berendt, a German writer who was best known as a jazz critic but who was also a radio and concert producer and the author of books on nature and acoustical phenomena, died Feb. 4 in Hamburg, Germany. He was 77. He died a day after he was struck by a car, The Associated
 Richard Rosenblum, a sculptor and a collector of Asian art, died on Tuesday at his home in Newton, Mass. He was 59. The cause was cancer, said Stanetsky Memorial Chapels in Brookline, Mass. Mr. Rosenblum was known for his collection of Chinese scholars' rocks, which has been
 Anatoly A. Sobchak, the former mayor of St. Petersburg and democratic reformer who gave Acting President Vladimir V. Putin his start in public life, died of a heart attack this morning, officials said. He was 62. Mr. Sobchak, who underwent treatment for heart problems for several ye
 Col. Dean Davenport, the co-pilot of the World War II bomber crew whose role in the Doolittle raid over Japan was recounted in the book and movie ''Thirty Seconds Over Tokyo,'' died on Feb. 14 at a hospital in Panama City, Fla. He was 81. The cause was congestive heart failure and p
 John W. Hannon Jr., a former president of Bankers Trust, died last Monday at Carolina House, an assisted living facility in Pinehurst, N.C. Mr. Hannon, a resident of West End, N.C., was 77. The cause of death was cardiac arrest, said his son, Bruce. Mr. Hannon worked for Ban
 Rudolph W. Patzert, the captain of a rusty 1904 gunboat that carried more than 1,380 Jewish refugees from Europe to Palestine as part of a secret rescue operation after World War II, died on Jan. 21 in a nursing home in Encinitas, Calif. He was 88. The cause was cancer, said his son
 Barney Childs, a composer and teacher, died on Jan. 11 at his home in Redlands, Calif. He was 73. The cause was Parkinson's disease, said his friend and colleague, Phillip Rehfeldt. Born in Spokane, Wash., Mr. Childs grew up there and in Palo Alto, Calif. He studied at the U
 Bob Hite Sr., whose commanding voice made countless fans of ''The Lone Ranger'' pull their chairs closer to the family radio, died on Friday in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 86 and had lived in Florida. Mr. Hite began his radio career in the 1930's, when he worked for station WXYZ in
 Clifton Daniel, the courtly North Carolinian who served as managing editor of The New York Times from 1964 to 1969 after a career as a correspondent in wartime London, war-torn Europe and the Middle East, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 87 . The cause was complicatio
 Justice Isaac Rubin, a former New York State appeals court judge from Westchester County, died Saturday in a hospice in the Bronx. He was 86 and lived in Rye, N.Y. After retiring from the bench in 1990 after 20 years, Justice Rubin continued to work in the court system as a judicial
 Robert Lamb Jr., the Justice Department's top community liaison for the Pacific Northwest, died on Feb. 9 at a hospital in Seattle. He was 74 and lived in Bellevue, Wash. Mr. Lamb had been in poor health for some time, said the Community Relations Service at the department. 
 Donald Tecumseh (Tee) Carson, who inherited the piano chair from Count Basie after the band leader's health failed, died on Feb. 13 at his home in Cedar Park, Tex. He was 70. The cause was lung cancer, said Shirley Cason, his sister. In addition to his career as a jazz music
 Fernando Benitez Gutierrez, a journalist who helped formulate new visions of Mexican identity in his penetrating reports on the Indian cultures and through the cultural publications that he founded, died of a heart attack on Monday. He was 88, a government biography said. Pe
 Friedensreich Hundertwasser, an Austrian painter and architect famous for his undulating forms and color wizardry a s well as for his  visceral loathing of symmetry and the straight line, died on Saturday on board the Queen Elizabeth 2, Joram Harel, his manager and friend, told The Associat
 G. Leon Netterville, a former president of Southern University and A&M College, the largest historically black college in the nation, died on Feb. 12 at his home in Baton Rouge, La. He was 93. Mr. Netterville was the third president of the college, which has 9,000 students and is in
 Murray Bernstein, who took a narrow store on Broadway and turned it into Murray's Sturgeon Shop, a legendary Upper West Side purveyor of salmon and sable, caviar and camaraderie, died Monday at a nursing home in Lauderhill, Fla. He was 87. Limousines would line up in front of the st
 Schroeder Boulton, a 67-year veteran of Wall Street, died on Feb. 13 at his home in Greenwich Village. He was 91 years old. Mr. Boulton was fond of saying that he was one of just four people who began their careers on Wall Street in the depth of the Depression. He was hired in 1931 
 Dr. Susumu Ohno, an influential figure in clinical genetics, died on Jan. 13 at the City of Hope Cancer Center in Duarte, Calif., a Los Angeles suburb. He was 71 and lived in the nearby city of Glendora. The cause was lung cancer, said the City of Hope National Medical Center, where
 Ronald Bruce Casey, a progressive voice in Alabama journalism as the Pulitzer Prize-winning editorial-page editor of The Birmingham News, died on Monday in Birmingham. He was 48 and lived in Homewood, Ala. The cause was a heart attack, The News said. Mr. Casey's writing focu
 Sir Stanley Matthews, a legendary figure in British soccer who played professionally until he was 50 years old and was the first pro soccer player to be knighted, died yesterday at a hospital in Newcastle-Under-Lyme, England. He was 85. In a career that spanned more than three decad
 Daniel T. Scannell, a former police officer who worked his way up to become head of New York City's subway and bus system and later held nearly every important executive job at the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, died Tuesday at the Mary Manning Walsh nursing home in Manhattan. He wa
 Julius L. Katz, a deputy United States trade representative who was a chief negotiator of the North American Free Trade Agreement, died on Jan. 27 at a hospital in Washington. He was 74 and lived in Bethesda, Md. The cause of death was stomach cancer, said his daughter, Linda Harris
 Maj. Gen. Kenneth D. Nichols, an Army engineer who supervised the construction of the plants that produced the nuclear fuel for the first atomic bombs, died on Monday at a retirement home in Bethesda, Md. He was 92. In 1942, General Nichols, who also helped establish the nation's ea
 Walter H. Zinn, a nuclear physicist who oversaw construction of the world's first nuclear reactor as part of the Manhattan Project, pioneered the development of commercial atomic reactors and was the first director of the Argonne National Laboratory, died on Feb. 14 at a hospital in Clearwa
 Elliot A. Caplin, a writer who worked in deep obscurity to produce the plot lines for scores of cartoon strips, died on Sunday at his home in Stockbridge, Mass. He was 86. One of his most successful efforts was ''Heart of Juliet Jones,'' in which Mr. Caplin cooperated with the artis
 John Hayter MacFadyen, an architect who designed several of the nation's premier performing arts centers and was the founding executive director of the New York State Council on the Arts, died on Feb. 18 at a hospital near his home in Damariscotta, Me. He was 76. The cause was compl
 Samuel S. Schreiber, an urban traffic engineer who became a major force in the conversion of the old trolley lines to modern bus systems in New York, Yonkers and other cities across the country, died Tuesday in Stamford, Conn., after a long illness. He was 91. ''He was a pioneer,'' 
 T.H. Watkins, a historian of the American West, a magazine editor and a prolific writer on environmental issues, died on Wednesday at his home in Bozeman, Mont. He was 63. The cause was colon cancer, said his wife, Joan Parker Watkins. Since leaving his last editorial post, 
 Bishop Albert B. Cleage, who after the urban riots of the 1960's built his Detroit church, the Shrine of the Black Madonna, into an important center for black theology and political power, died on Feb. 20 in Calhoun Falls, S.C. He was 88. Bishop Cleage died while visiting Beulah Lan
 Alfred Isselbacher, an art dealer who specialized in 19th- and 20th-century prints, died on Feb. 15at a hospital in the Bronx. He was 73 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Isselbacher was born in Isselbach, Germany, in 1926. His family emigrat
 Carroll B. Cline, a lighting designer whose clients included the Santa Fe Opera Theater in Santa Fe, N.M., the Norman Rockwell Museum in Stockbridge, Mass., and the lobby of 1251 Avenue of the Americas, died Thursday at his home on the Upper West Side in Manhattan. He was 72. The ca
 Henry Jernigan Tobler, a gallery director, collector and writer who specialized in contemporary art and folk art, died on Friday at the M. D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston. He was 34 and lived in New York until June, when he moved to Houston for treatment. The cause was leukemia
 John Heliker, a painter and teacher who was a fixture of the New York art world for nearly seven decades, died on Tuesday at the Sonojee Estate, a health center in Bar Harbor, Me. He was 91 and had lived in New York during most of his career, spending summers on Cranberry Island, Me.       
 Joseph Wolfson, an aquatic Peter Pan who was one of the first surfboarders to master complex maneuvers on the smaller ''body board'' in the 1970's, died in a car crash on a Los Angeles freeway last Monday. He was 50. Wolfson became a legend known as Dr. 360 for his ability to spin c
 John Blassingame, a scholar of the history of slavery in America and a former chairman of the African-American Studies program at Yale University, died on Feb. 13 at his home in New Haven. He was 59. The cause of death was not known, said his son, John W. Blassingame Jr. of New Have
 John Nichol Irwin II, a Manhattan lawyer and diplomat who served under General Douglas MacArthur during World War II and later became ambassador to France, died yesterday at a hospital in New Haven, Conn. He was 86. Mr. Irwin, who lived in New Canaan, Conn., held numerous government
