 Gilbert Barclay Mustin, who led the Fleer Corporation, creators of Dubble Bubble gum, in successfully challenging the dominance of Topps Chewing Gum Inc. in the multimillion dollar baseball card business, died Wednesday at a hospital in Bryn Mawr, Penn. He was 78 years old and lived in Have
 Dr. Harrison Holt Richardson, the youngest member of the team that spent the winter with Adm. Richard E. Byrd on his third mission to Antarctica, died on July 17 at a son's home in Claiborne, Md. He was 80 and lived in Beaver, Pa. Dr. Richardson carried a 16-millimeter movie camera 
 Bertram E. Smythies, a versatile British naturalist who wrote about birds and trees in southeast Asia and flowers in southwestern Europe, died on Tuesday in the county of Kent in England. Mr. Smythies, 86, had settled in Estepona in the south of Spain in the mid-1960's. Mr. Smythies
 Samuel Rodger Callaway, a retired executive vice president and chief trust officer of the Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, died July 24 at Danbury Hospital. A former resident of Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y., he was 85 and lived in Southbury, Conn. Mr. Callaway was in charge of
 Nirad C. Chaudhuri, whose first book in English, ''The Autobiography of an Unknown Indian,'' was written when he was 53 and thought his life would soon end, died on Sunday at  101. In the five decades of grace he received after completing the autobiography, he saw it acclaimed as a classic 
 Porfirio Delgado, a luthier whose guitars were used by several generations of classical, Latin and pop performers, died on Wednesday at his home in East Los Angeles. He was 85. Although he had retired and left his Candelas Guitars shop in the hands of two of his grandsons, Tomas and
 Willie Morris, the writer and editor whose life and work reveled in the endless contradictions of the South and the region's ghostlike hold on its native sons and daughters, died on Monday at St. Dominic Hospital in Jackson, Miss., at 64. The cause was heart failure, said a hospital
 Richard Olney, one of the first food writers to introduce the simple joys of French country cooking to American readers, was found dead yesterday at his home at Sollies-Toucas in Provence. He was 71. Kermit Lynch, a California wine merchant who spends part of the year in a house nea
 Rudy Burckhardt, whose 60-year career as an artist and a friend of artists connected several generations and esthetic factions of the New York School, drowned on Sunday in a pond near his home in Searsmont, Me. He was 85 and also had a home in Manhattan. The administrator of the off
 Abdul Wahab al-Bayati, an Iraqi poet who was a major innovator in his art form, died on Tuesday in Damascus, Syria. He was 73 and had lived in Damascus since leaving Amman, Jordan, earlier this year. The cause was a heart attack, reported The Associated Press, which  said that he wa
 Bernard E. Simon, the last of a group of American plastic surgeons who donated their services to help the ''Hiroshima Maidens,'' 25 disfigured and maimed survivors of the American bombing of Hiroshima, died on Aug. 1 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan, where he had worked for more than 40
 Henry W. Sawyer 3d, who successfully argued two landmark Supreme Court cases that helped define today's boundaries between church and state, died on Saturday at a hospital in Philadelphia, where he lived. He was 80. The cause was lung cancer, said a close friend and colleague, David
 Rabbi David J. Seligson, a nationally known Reform rabbi and an eloquent orator who held the pulpit at Central Synagogue in Manhattan for 20 years, died on Tuesday on the way to a hospital in Manhattan. He was 92 and had lived for the last two years at the Jewish Home and Hospital in Manhat
 Mohammed Hadid, an Iraqi economist and cabinet minister who advocated democracy but was buffeted by his country's autocratic governments, died on Tuesday in London, where he moved in 1995. He was 92. He had an asthma attack, The Associated Press said. Mr. Hadid received a de
 Stanley Stahl, a New York real estate and banking magnate, who prosecutors say was the target of a failed murder-for-hire scheme devised by Abe Hirschfeld, another prominent businessman, died yesterday at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 75 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a str
 Russell Inslee Clark Jr., who as dean of undergraduate admissions at Yale University presided over the enrollment of Yale's first women in 1969, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Wallingford, Conn. He was 64 and lived in Riverdale, the Bronx. Mr. Clark suffered a fatal heart attack w
 The Rev. S. Howard Woodson Jr., who in 1974 became the first black to lead the lower house of a state legislature, died July 28 at a hospital in Trenton. He was 83. Pastor Woodson, a Democrat, lived in Trenton and led the Shiloh Baptist Church there for 53 years. He was elected to t
 Gen. Sunthorn Kongsompong, who led a bloodless military coup in 1991 that overthrew Thailand's democratically elected Government and set the stage for a year of military rule, died on Monday in a hospital in Bangkok. He was 68. He had been under treatment for several weeks for lung 
 William James Fadiman, the Hollywood producer, script editor and book reviewer, died on June 30 at his  home in Bel Air, Calif. He was 90. Mr. Fadiman was born in Brooklyn. He attended the Sorbonne and graduated Phi Beta Kappa from the University of Wisconsin. While a student he cre
 August Huber, an investment banker and stock market analyst in the 1960's and 1970's, died on Wednesday. He was 87. He died at Phelps Memorial Hospital Center in Sleepy Hollow, N.Y., near his home in Scarborough, N.Y. Mr. Huber spent his entire career at Spencer Trask & Comp
 Dr. Bastiaan J. D. Meeuse, a botany professor who withstood one of nature's foulest floral odors to unlock some of the mysteries of the voodoo lily, a plant that generates heat along with stench, died on July 27 at a hospital in Kirkland, Wash. He was 83 and had lived in Kirkland since 1953
 Harry Litwack, the Hall of Fame basketball coach at Temple University and a popular figure on the Philadelphia sports scene for half a century, died Saturday at his home in Huntingdon Valley, Pa. He was 91. Litwack had few high-profile players, but the coach known as Chief produced 
 Jerry Yulsman, a tail gunner on World War II bomber flights who later wrote a ''what if'' novel in which Hitler is killed in 1913, died on Friday at Long Island College Hospital in Brooklyn. He was 75 and lived in Brooklyn. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Barbara Woike.   
 Harry (the Hat) Walker, who made baseball history twice when he won the National League batting title in 1947, died Sunday at University of Alabama Hospital in Birmingham. Walker, who lived in Leeds, Ala., was 80. The cause was complications from a stroke, his family said. W
 Milton Brumer, an engineer who managed the construction of such mighty bridges as the Verrazano-Narrows over New York Bay, the Throgs Neck over the East River, and the Walt Whitman over the Delaware, died Thursday at a hospital in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 97 and lived in Boca Raton. 
 Victor Mature, who attained movie stardom dressed in a wooly mammoth loincloth, died on Wednesday in San Diego County, Calif. He was 86, according to the Motion Picture Almanac, although other reference books put him at 83 or 84. He died of cancer, said Zollie Volchok, a friend.    
 Jack Laskowski, an international vice president of the United Auto Workers who was in charge of negotiations with the DaimlerChrysler Corporation, died on Sunday in Lewiston, Mich. He was 59 and lived in Canton, Mich. The cause was a heart attack, a spokesman for the union, Roger Ke
 Johnny Van Ryn, whose doubles partnership with Wilmer Allison proved to be the anchoring force of the United States Davis Cup team from 1929 to 1936, died Saturday in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 94 years old. Born in Newport News, Va., in 1905, Van Ryn's doubles expertise first attracte
 William L. Slayton, who moved against racial discrimination as Commissioner of Urban Renewal in the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations, died on Saturday at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 82 and lived in Washington. Mr. Slayton, a Kansas-born Democrat, worked f
 Anthony Stanislas Radziwill, a television executive who received both Emmy and Peabody Awards, died Tuesday at New York Presbyterian Hospital. He was 40 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Radziwill, the only son of Lee Bouvier Radziwill Ross and the late Prince Stanislas Radziwill, had bat
 Solomon Dutka, who started a marketing research firm in a one-room office in New York City in 1953 that grew into one of the largest companies in the industry, died on Saturday at his home in Riverdale, the Bronx. Mr. Dutka, who was 75, was the chairman of Audits and Surveys Worldwi
 Whitney Darrow Jr., a witty, gently satiric cartoonist for The New Yorker for 50 years, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Burlington, Vt. He was 89 and lived with his wife, Mildred, in Shelburne, Vt. Mr. Darrow, one of the last of the early New Yorker cartoonists -- a group that incl
 Earle M. Jorgensen, who built one of the nation's largest steel distribution companies and helped persuade Ronald Reagan to go into politics, died Wednesday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 101 and until weeks before his death went to work nearly every day at the business he found
 John Dortch Lewis, whose exploits as a prisoner of war in Germany provided the basis for the character played by Steve McQueen in the 1963 film ''The Great Escape,'' died of pancreatic cancer Sunday at his home in Goldsboro, N.C. He was 84. Gene Price, a friend and the former editor
 Robert Marshall Viles, a former dean and president of Franklin Pierce Law Center in Concord, N.H., died on Monday in a swimming accident while on vacation in France. He was 60 and lived in Concord. The law center said Mr. Viles drowned off the coast of Brittany when he was pulled un
 Ignatz Bubis, who survived the Holocaust and led Germany's small post-war Jewish community for nearly two decades, died in a hospital here today. He was 72. Mr. Bubis's death was announced in a brief statement by the Central Council for German Jews, which did not give the cause of d
 Jean Drapeau, who in nearly three decades as the autocratic Mayor of Montreal brought both grandeur and grandiosity to his city, died on Thursday. He was 83. Mr. Drapeau, who left office in 1986, had been in fragile health since suffering a stroke several years ago. He had been in t
 Stanley Grafton Mortimer Jr., a sportsman, advertising executive and member of one of the founding families of the exclusive enclave of Tuxedo Park, N.Y., died on Wednesday after a long illness at his home in Harriman, N.Y. He was 86. Mr. Mortimer was a member of an illustrious Amer
 Carl Toms, a set and costume designer for the theater, opera, ballet and film, died on Aug. 4 at his home in Hertfordshire, England. He was 72. The cause was emphysema, The Guardian reported. Mr. Toms trained at the Mansfield College of Art in Mansfield, Nottingham, and in L
 Dezider Grunberger, a cancer researcher and professor emeritus of biochemistry, molecular biophysics and public health at the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, died on Aug. 7 at a nursing home in Cresskill, N.J. He was 77 and lived in Teaneck, N.J. The cause wa
 Jerome Irving Kleinerman, a pathologist and lung specialist who helped develop national health standards for the workplace, died in an automobile accident on Aug. 6 in Arcadia, Fla. A former resident of Shaker Heights, Ohio, he was 75 and had retired to Palm Beach Garden, Fla., four years a
 Lane Kirkland, who was president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. from 1979 to 1995,  a troubled period for American workers, and who resigned after an angry revolt of union presidents, died yesterday morning at his home in Washington. He was 77. The cause of death was lung cancer, said his wif
 Pee Wee Reese, the Hall of Fame shortstop and hugely popular captain of the Brooklyn Dodgers in their glory years of the 1950's, died yesterday at his home in Louisville, Ky. He was 81. He had been battling lung cancer since 1997, when he underwent radiation treatment after surgery 
 Lieut. Col. Ernesto Melo Antunes, a Portuguese Army officer who was an architect and ideologist of the almost bloodless coup that overthrew his country's longtime conservative dictatorship in 1974 and led to the return of democracy, died on Tuesday in his home in Sintra, outside Lisbon. He 
 Frank M. Kleiler, a retired deputy assistant Secretary of Labor and a former executive secretary of the National Labor Relations Board, died on Aug. 8 at a nursing home in Silver Spring, Md., where he lived. He was 85. In the Johnson and Nixon Administrations, Mr. Kleiler served as 
 Pee Wee Reese, the Hall of Fame shortstop and hugely popular captain of the Brooklyn Dodgers who played on seven pennant-winning teams, died Saturday at his home in Louisville, Ky. He was 81. He had been battling lung cancer since 1997, when he underwent radiation treatment after su
 Tang Tsou, an authority on modern China and a longtime professor at the University of Chicago, died on Aug. 7 in a hospital in Chicago. He was 80 and lived in Chicago. The cause was heart failure, said William Harms of the university's news office. Professor Tsou retired fro
 Robert T. Jones, an innovator in aircraft design at NASA who played an important role in developing the high-speed swept wing, died on Wednesday at his home in Los Altos Hills, Calif. He was 89. During World War II, as the designers of combat aircraft sought ever-greater speeds, Ger
 William R. Stott, who rose from selling petroleum products in Pennsylvania to the highest executive levels of the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey before beginning a second career as a venture capitalist and consultant, died on Wednesday. He was 91. Mr. Stott, who did business wit
 Frederick Hart, a sculptor best known for his ''Three Soldiers'' statue at the Vietnam Veterans Memorial and for his ''Creation'' sculptures at the National Cathedral in Washington, died on Friday at a hospital in Baltimore. He was 56 and lived in Hume, Va. The cause was lung cancer
 Philip M. Klutznick, a Chicago real estate developer, investor and philanthropist who was long prominent in Jewish communal affairs and served as Secretary of Commerce in the Carter Administration, died on Saturday at his home in Chicago. He was 92. Mr. Klutznick was national presid
 Dr. Sidney Q. Cohlan, a New York pediatrician long affiliated with the New York University School of Medicine, died Thursday at the university's Tisch Hospital. He was 84 and lived in Manhattan, Ocean Beach, N.Y., and Palm Beach, Fla. Dr. Cohlan retired in 1990 from private practice
 Carlos Cachaca, one of Brazil's most prolific and beloved songwriters and a founder of the samba troupe whose creativity made Rio de Janeiro's annual pre-Lenten Carnival an international attraction, died here on Monday. He was 97. Mr. Cachaca, whose real name was Carlos Moreira de C
 Martin Wong, a painter whose meticulous visionary realism is among the lasting legacies of New York's East Village art scene of the 1980's  and a precursor of the identity-driven work of the 90's, died last Thursday at his parents' home in San Francisco. He was 53 and had lived in San Franc
 Paddy Devlin, who was active in the founding of Northern Ireland's moderate Social Democratic and Labor Party, its most popular Catholic party, died on Sunday. He was 74 and a resident of Belfast. He died after a lengthy hospitalization, The Associated Press reported. Mr. De
 Edward L. Palmer, a media consultant who fused education with entertainment, and helped in the early development of ''Sesame Street,'' died on Aug. 1 at a hospice in Ithaca, N.Y.. He was 66. The cause was complications from prostate cancer, said his wife, Vera B. Bauer-Palmer.      
 Sir Hugh Casson, a British architect who served as president of the Royal Academy of Arts, designed the interiors of royal family residences and in later years taught Prince Charles the techniques of watercolor painting,  died on Sunday in London. He was 89. A man with a winning per
 Edward L. Morgan, a former White House lawyer who in 1974 pleaded guilty to participating in a plan to create a fraudulent $576,000 tax deduction for President Richard M. Nixon, died on Aug. 6 in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 61. The cause was heart failure after a long illness, The A
 Frederic Hsieh, the entrepreneur who used enticements of a ''Chinese Beverly Hills'' to turn a Los Angeles suburb into the first American city with an Asian majority , died on Aug. 8 while on vacation in Las Vegas, Nev. He was 54 and lived mostly in Hong Kong. The cause was a stroke
 Hanoch Levin, Israel's leading playwright, who spent more than three decades trying to strip the nation of self-congratulatory armor and force it to examine what he considered its hypocrisy and self-delusion, died on Wednesday of bone cancer. He was 56. Although his first plays caus
 Richard W. Jennings, who helped popularize the study of securities law in United States law schools and helped export concepts of market regulation to the postwar societies of Japan and Germany, died at his home in Piedmont, Calif., on Aug. 9 after a brief illness. He was 91. At his
 Charles Samuel Joelson, a five-term Congressman from New Jersey who is best remembered for an  amendment that spared thousands of school libraries in 1969, died Tuesday at CentraState Medical Center in Freehold Township, N.J. He was 83 and lived in Freehold. Mr. Joelson, a Democrat 
 Donald Louis Mason, an F.B.I. agent whose fascination with art inspired him to create a loosely organized unit within the bureau's major theft squad in New York that became the scourge of art thieves in the 1970's, died on Aug. 10 at his home in Haworth, N.J. He was 74. The cause wa
 Dr. Robert Byck, a psychiatrist and brain researcher at Yale Medical School who in 1979 gave Congress an early warning that the United States faced an epidemic of smokable cocaine, died on Aug. 9 in a Boston hospital. He was 66 and lived in Gilford, Conn. The cause was complications
 Dr. Michael Sveda, a chemist who invented cyclamates, a noncaloric sweetener that became widely popular and then was banned by the Government as a possible carcinogen, died on Aug. 10 at his home in Stamford, Conn. He was 87. The cause was complications from Parkinson's disease, sai
 Sir John Hale, a British historian who specialized in the Renaissance and was a former chairman of the National Gallery in London, died on  Aug. 12. He was 75. The cause was not announced, The Associated Press reported, but he had been partly incapacitated by a stroke in 1992.      
 Donald E. Degnan, an advertising executive who helped guide the sport of competitive croquet through a period of extraordinary growth in the late 1980's and early 1990's, died on Aug. 7 while on a business trip to New Orleans. He was 76 and lived in Palm Beach, Fla., and Westhampton Beach, 
 Douglas DeWitt Bazata, who served with the United States Office of Strategic Services behind enemy lines in France in World War II and later became an artist, died on July 14 in his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 88. The death of Mr. Bazata was belatedly reported to The New York Ti
 Mario Vespa, a cruise industry executive, died on Aug. 10 at New York Presbyterian Hospital after a lengthy illness, a business associate, Antonio Cosulich, said. He was 93. Mr. Vespa, who was born in Savona, Italy, was a captain in the Italian Navy during World War II, but during t
 Alfons Bach, a versatile modern designer of tubular steel furniture and other objects whose work was included in exhibitions of contemporary American industrial art at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died on Thursday at a nursing home in Pensacola, Fla. He was 95 and had lived in Pensacola 
 Leo Castelli, the New York art dealer who played an extraordinary role in shaping contemporary American art and fostering international acceptance of painters like Jasper Johns, Robert Rauschenberg, Roy Lichtenstein and Frank Stella, died on Saturday night at his Manhattan home. He was 91. 
 Peter Bernard Terenzio, a former administrator of Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan who also led the American Hospital Association, the New York State Hospital Association and the New York City Public Health Association, died on Aug. 12 in Naples, Fla. He was 83 and also lived in Madison, Con
 Wilbert Jean Oliver, whose 1973 Federal lawsuit had the practical effect of forcing funeral homes throughout the nation to provide equal services to blacks and whites, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Marksville, La. He was 89 and lived in Mansura, La. Mr. Oliver sued the Escude Fun
 Guy Durosier, a versatile Haitian singer and organist whom Edith Piaf once called ''the living breath of Haiti,'' died on Thursday at his home in Bothell, a suburb of Seattle. He was 68. The cause was complications from pulmonary cancer, said his son Robert. In a career more
 John S. Gottschalk, a director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service in the 1960's who oversaw developments like the first endangered species act, the banning of the pesticide DDT and the comeback of the whooping crane, died on Aug. 13 at his home in Arlington, Va. He was 86.      
 Keith Deamer (Tex) Banwell, a British Army World War II escape artist whose many exploits included serving as a double for Field Marshal Montgomery and twice facing a Gestapo firing squad and living to tell about it, died on July 25 in a hospital in North London. He was 80. His deat
 Donald E. Johnson, who headed the Veterans Administration under President Richard M. Nixon but resigned under pressure from Congress and veterans' groups, died on Aug. 10 at a hospital in Fredericksburg, Va., where he lived. He was 75. The cause of death was cancer, said his son, Ro
 Harold Brown Ehrlich, a former Republican Assemblyman from upstate New York whose persistence made kindergarten a fixture in New York public schools of the 1940's, died Aug. 11 at his retirement home in Laguna Hills, Calif. He was 97. A Buffalo lawyer, he entered the State Legislatu
 Jack B. Jackson, a former chief executive of the J. C. Penney Company, the retailer, died on Aug. 12 in Dallas, the company announced. He was 83. Mr. Jackson began his 38-year career with Penney while still attending Austin College in Sherman, Tex., his hometown, and at one time he 
 Louis Ehrenkrantz, who started as a high school English teacher and became a prominent stockbroker and Wall Street commentator, died on Sunday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 65. The cause was cancer, his company said. He was a partner and the president of Ehrenkrantz King Nus
 Norman Wexler, a playwright and screenwriter whose credits included the scripts for ''Saturday Night Fever'' and ''Serpico,'' died on Monday at his home in Washington. He was 73. The cause was a heart attack, said Jane Kepner, a friend. Raised in Detroit in a blue-collar fam
 Alexandre Lagoya, a guitarist  known for the elegance and textural clarity of his performances, both as part of a duet with his first wife, Ida Presti, and later as a soloist, died in Paris on Tuesday after what the Agence France-Presse reported was a long illness. He was 70 and lived in Pa
 Chester Brooks Kerr, a leading figure in both commercial and noncommercial book publishing, died on  Sunday in an extended-care facility in New London, N.H. He was 86. Mr. Kerr had previously lived in New Haven, said his son John. In a career spanning 30 years, Mr. Kerr work
 Constantine S. Nicandros, a former chairman of Conoco Inc., the multinational oil and gas company, and a leading patron of the arts in his adopted hometown, Houston, died Monday at a hospital in Houston. He was 66. The cause was cancer, according to a statement released by his son, 
 Fred M. Thrower, a former New York television executive who contributed the televised Yule log to New Yorkers' Christmas Eve celebrations, died on Aug. 16 in Greenwich Hospital in Greenwich, Conn.  He was 89 and lived in Greenwich. Mr. Thrower began his career as an advertising sale
 David Graham, who as an Oxford undergraduate in 1933 played a key role in the student debating society's much-denounced and long-remembered vote against fighting for ''King and Country,'' died on Aug. 12. He was 87. The death of Mr. Graham, who worked later for the British Broadcast
 Dr. Charles Davis Hollister, a marine geologist who expanded the knowledge of ocean bottom currents and deep sea storms, died on Monday in Wyoming on a family vacation. He was 63 and lived in Falmouth, Mass. A mountaineer, Dr. Hollister fell while climbing boulders on a hike  and su
 The Rev. Mario Zicarelli, a Roman Catholic priest whose parishioners protested his transfer out of the Bronx in 1972 after he publicly supported secular education, died Aug. 25 in a hospital in Nyack, N.Y. He was 78. The cause was complications of a stroke. He had most recently been
 Raymond Vernon, who helped shape the postwar system of international trade as a Government official and influenced thinking about the global economy as a scholar, died on Thursday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 85. The cause was cancer, said his daughter, Heidi Vernon.      
 Dr. George T. Harrell Jr., founding dean of the medical colleges at both the University of Florida and Pennsylvania State University, died on Thursday at Duke University Hospital in Durham, N.C. He was 91. Dr. Harrell came to the University of Florida in 1954 to design and develop t
 Harry Kahn, a retired New York investment adviser, art collector and philanthropist, died on Aug. 20 at Lenox Hill Hospital. A resident of Manhattan's Upper East Side and Truro, Mass., he was 82. The causes were pneumonia and congestive heart failure, his family said. Mr. Ka
 Wallace Rosenwach, a master builder of the rooftop water tanks that decorate the skyline of New York City, died last Monday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 77 and lived on Long Island. He died after a brief illness, said his son, Andrew. The Rosenwach Tank
 Charles F. Hall, an engineer who supervised some of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's early scientific penetrations into deep space, died on Thursday in a hospital in Mountain View, Calif. He was 79 and lived in Los Altos, Calif. The cause was cancer, said John W. 
 Archbishop Helder Pessoa Camara of Brazil, an early proponent of liberation theology and an outspoken critic of his country's military dictatorship, died late on Friday in his home in Olinda, Brazil. He was 90. He served as Archbishop of Olinda and Recife, in the parched and impover
 Patrick Rance, a crusader for traditional British farmhouse cheeses and the author of the authoritative ''Great British Cheese Book,'' died on Aug. 22. He was 81. From his small shop in Streatley, near Henley-on-Thames, Mr. Rance waged a determined and ultimately successful battle t
 Fritz Shurmur, one of pro football's most innovative and successful assistant coaches never to become a head coach, died yesterday in Suamico, Wis., near Green Bay. He was 67 and was found in May 1999 to have liver cancer that had spread. From 1975 to 1998, Shurmur was a defensive c
 George Sugarman, whose animated, meandering polychrome sculptures are among the most inventive if least appreciated three-dimensional artworks of the early 1960's, died on Wednesday at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 87 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Sugarman belonged to a 
 Marc A. Lustgarten, a principal architect of Cablevision's growth in cable television and programming for the past two decades and the chairman of its Madison Square Garden subsidiary since 1997, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 52 and lived in Manhattan.    
 Marvin Sands, chairman of Canandaigua Brands, the nation's second-largest winery, died on Saturday after a brief illness. Mr. Sands died of cancer at his home in Canandaigua, N.Y., according to the company. He was 75. Mr. Sands took over a small bulk wine producer in Cananda
 Robert K. Mueller, an authority on how companies create and govern themselves and the former chairman of the management consulting firm Arthur D. Little Inc., based in Cambridge, Mass., died last Tuesday at a nursing home in Acton, Mass. He was 86. Mr. Mueller was chairman from 1977
