 Bob Thiele, a producer and record company owner who turned out a string of important jazz recordings for his Impulse label along with pop hits by Buddy Holly, Jackie Wilson and Teresa Brewer, died on Tuesday at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 73. The cause was kidney failure
 Burne Hogarth, creator of the "Tarzan of the Apes" comic strip, died on Sunday at the Cochin Hospital in Paris. He was 84. Mr. Hogarth had been the guest of honor at a comic-strip festival in Angouleme in France and was headed back to the United States, hospital officials said.     
 Charlie Jewtraw, who won the first event at the first Winter Olympic Games, died last Friday. He was 95. Mr. Jewtraw won the 500 meters in speed skating at Chamonix, France, in 1924. A renowned sprinter, he also won the United States championship in 1921 and 1923. His Olympic gold m
 Herman Buchman, a makeup artist who worked in film, theater, opera and television, died on Saturday at his home in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 75. The cause was cancer, said his daughter, Caitlin Kraft Buchman. Before his retirement some 10 years ago, Mr. Buchman was director of m
 J. Terence Reese, a prolific British writer on bridge who was widely regarded as the world's best player until a cheating scandal effectively ended his tournament career in 1965, died on Monday at his home in Hove, England. He was 82 and had been the bridge columnist for The Observer since 
 John P. Killilea, a college scout and director of player personnel for the Houston Rockets, died last Saturday in Denver. He was 67. Mr. Killilea died after suffering a heart attack at the Denver airport while  boarding a flight for Kansas City, Mo. Mr. Killilea worked as an
 Julian W. Hill, a research chemist whose accidental discovery of a tough, taffy-like compound revolutionized everyday life after it proved its worth in warfare and courtship, died on Sunday in Hockessin, Del. He was 91. Dr. Hill died at the Cokesbury Village retirement community, wh
 LeRoy C. Breunig, an authority on modern French poetry and art criticism who  served as interim president of Barnard College at Columbia University in 1975, died on Saturday at New York Hospital. He was 80 and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Breunig was an assistant professor of Romance lan
 Mikhail Reshetnyov, who designed Soviet booster rockets and satellites, died  on Friday. He was 71. Mr. Reshetnyov died at Krasnoyarsk-26, a closed nuclear research center in eastern Siberia that also housed his space design bureau. He joined the team of Sergei Korolyov, a p
 Milton Sorokin, a Hartford lawyer and a specialist in First Amendment issues, died on Sunday in Hartford Hospital. He was 69 and lived in West Hartford. He died after heart surgery, according to the law firm in which he was formerly a senior partner, Sorokin, Sorokin, Gross, Hyde & 
 Prof. Robert Adams Day, a Joyce scholar an' expert on 18th-century English literature, died on Jan. 19 at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 71 and lived 'n Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack, said his companion, Milton Malkin. Dr. Day retired recently as a pro
 Dr. Russell C. Smart, a retired educator who teamed with his wife to write 10 books on child rearing and family relations, died on Jan. 13 at his home in San  Diego. He was 82. The cause was prostate cancer, said his wife, Prof. Mollie Stevens Smart. Among the couple's books
 Warren Philip Chernock, a nuclear and metallurgical engineer whose career took him from the Argonne National Laboratory to Three Mile Island and Chernobyl, died on Saturday at his home in Fairfax Station, Va. He was 70. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. At his d
 Jamie Uys, who wrote, produced and directed the hit film "The Gods Must Be Crazy," died of a heart attack on Monday at his home. He was 74 and lived in Pretoria. One of South Africa's most influential film makers, Mr. Uys (pronounced ACE)  was best known for comedies that satirized 
 Dr. Robert R. J. Gallati, a visionary New York City police official who designed the first computerized fingerprint identification system and sketched out many other advanced technological innovations in law enforcement, died on Sunday at a hospital in De Kalb, Ill. A resident of Harbor Hei
 Roman Smoluchowski, a physicist who studied structures as small as atoms and  as large as planets, died on Jan. 12 in Austin, Tex., where he was an emeritus professor at the University of Texas. He was 85. As a professor of solid-state physics, first at the Carnegie Institute of Tec
 Ward Byron, a producer and director of some of the radio programs that featured the Big Band sounds of the 1930's and 40's, died on Sunday at the Sunharbour Manor nursing home in Roslyn, L.I. He was 89 and lived in Riverdale in the Bronx. Working for the Music Corporation of America
 Winston S. Williams, a former reporter for The New York Times, died on Wednesday in Norfolk, Va. He was 51 and lived in Manhattan. He died after being hospitalized for pneumonia, said his brother Miles Williams. He was on leave from his job as a senior reporter for Knight-Ridder Fin
 Arnold E. Safer, an economist who was an expert in the world energy markets,  died on Jan. 13 in his home in Rockville, Md. He was 59. The cause was a heart attack. Mr. Safer founded a consulting firm, the Energy Futures Group, which in collaboration with Benjamin Schlesinge
 Dr. Channing Liem, a retired professor of political science, former South Korean delegate to the United Nations and longtime campaigner for the peaceful reunification of a democratic Korea, died on Jan. 24 at the Alta Bates Medical Center in Berkeley, Calif. A Berkeley resident, he was 86. 
 Gene Kelly, the dancer, actor, director and choreographer who brought a vigorous athleticism, casual grace and an earthy masculinity to the high romance of lavish Hollywood musicals, died yesterday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 83. His longtime publicity agent, Warren 
 James N. Goodsell, the chief Latin American correspondent for The Christian Science Monitor from 1964 to 1985, died on Thursday at his home in Coral Gables, Fla. He was 66. He had been ill for several weeks, his family said. Mr. Goodsell taught journalism at the University o
 Larry A. Grenier Jr., a dancer who performed with the Joffrey Ballet, Eliot Feld and Twyla Tharp, died on Wednesday at the Maitri AIDS Hospice in San Francisco. He was 46 and lived in San Francisco. Mr. Grenier performed a wide range of dramatic and pure dance roles during his years
 Martin Kessler, a New York publisher of influential books about contemporary  social history, public policy and economics, died on Thursday at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 66. The cause was brain cancer, said his daughter, Elinor Kessler. At his death
 Ranald Purcell Hobbs, a book publisher who developed the Rinehart Editions Series that is used widely in colleges, died last Saturday in Naples Community Hospital in Florida. He was 88 and lived in Naples. The cause was a heart attack, said his son, Ranald D. Hobbs. Mr. Hobb
 The man who served as Emperor Hirohito's closest personal aide for more than  half a century, Yoshihiro Tokugawa, died today of respiratory failure. He was 89. Mr. Tokugawa, a descendant of the feudal-era Tokugawa shoguns, had been in poor health since his retirement in 1988. He had
 Arthur Martin, a retired British intelligence official who played a key role  in identifying Anthony Blunt, a prominent British art historian, as having belonged to a Soviet spy ring, died on Jan. 10, the British newspaper The Guardian reported on Friday. Mr. Martin was 81. The Guar
 Shamus Culhane, a pioneering animator who made the Seven Dwarfs march home singing "Heigh Ho" in Walt Disney's "Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs," died on Friday at his home. He was 87 years old and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Culhane's career in animation, which began before movies coul
 Evan Jones, a food writer who fell in love twice in Paris, finding both a career and a companion during a single extended sojourn after World War II, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 80. His wife, Judith, said the cause was injuries suffered in a fall at his Manhattan a
 Kevin Williams, a former star wide receiver at U.S.C. and a member of the 1978 national championship team, was killed in a freight-train crash, family members and railroad officials said. He was 38. Mr. Williams died early Thursday when the Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corporation t
 Brodrick Haldane, a witty and stylish photographer who used his impeccable social credentials to gain access to the rich, famous and well-connected, died in Edinburgh on Saturday. He was 83 and died of cancer. Hailed by Cecil Beaton as the "founder of modern society photography," Mr
 Gianandrea Gavazzeni, a former artistic director of La Scala in Milan, died today at his home in northern Italy, his family said. He was 86. Mr. Gavazzeni, who had been ill for several months, began his career as a pianist and composer and wrote copiously for 20 years. He began work
 Harold Brasington, the former dirt-track stock car racer who built the original Darlington Raceway, the first of the superspeedways on the Nascar circuit, died Sunday. He was 86. Mr. Brasington raced stock cars at dirt tracks in the 1930's and 1940's. But  he wanted a faster racing 
 Julian Samora, a scholar who encountered such pervasive prejudice growing up  Chicano in southern Colorado that he became the first recognized Mexican-American sociologist and a leader in founding the academic movement for  Mexican-American studies, died on Friday at his home in Albuquerque
 The Spanish flamenco dancer and choreographer Antonio Ruiz Soler, whose ballet-inspired footwork and arm movements brought new prominence to male dancers on the Spanish stage in the 1940's, 50's and 60's, died on Monday at his home in Madrid. He was 74. The Associated Press reported
 Borden R. Putnam, New Jersey's first Commissioner of Commerce and Economic Development and a pivotal figure in the state's economic growth during the 1980's, died on Monday at his home in Franklin Lakes, N.J. He was 73. The cause of death was complications of Parkinson's disease and
 Eugene F. Trefethen Jr., an industrialist and philanthropist who played a role in the building of the Hoover Dam and the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge, died last Wednesday at his home in Napa, Calif. He was 86. Mr. Trefethen's career as an executive with Kaiser Industries paralle
 Capt. John L. Testrake, the Bible-reading T.W.A. pilot whose display of calm, quiet courage made him an international hero during a 17-day hijacking ordeal between Beirut and Algiers in 1985, died yesterday at a hospice in St. Joseph, Mo. He was 68 and had been suffering from cancer.       
 N. Philip Miller, an engineer who played a central role in designing the Goddard Space Flight Center in Maryland, died of a stroke on Jan. 31 in Columbia, Md. He was 92 and lived near Columbia. He was chief of the facilities engineering division for the National Aeronautics and Spac
 Brian Weil, a photographer who devoted much of his career to documenting life on society's margins and who helped found New York City's first needle exchange  program, died over the weekend at his home in Manhattan. He was 41. His body was found late Monday evening, said Bruce Steph
 Guy Madison, a film and television actor who starred in the 1950's television series "The Adventures of Wild Bill Hickok," died on Tuesday at Desert Hospital  Hospice in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 74 and lived in Morongo Valley, Calif. The cause was emphysema, The Associated Press 
 Manolo Fabregas, an actor, producer and director who was a popular figure in  theater, films and television in Mexico, died on Sunday at his home here. He was 75. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. A third-ganeration member of a well-known theatrical family, Mr. 
 Mitchell Rogovin, a Washington lawyer who moved deftly in the highest levels  of Government and politics yet remained an advocate of openness and accountability for public officials, died yesterday at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 65. Mr. Rogovin, who lived in
 Ralph I. Straus, a prominent New York City merchant and philanthropist and a  frequent consultant to the Federal Government on foreign economic policy, died on Monday in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 92. He died after a fall, his wife, Katherine, said. Mr. Straus, who was born in
 Russell Colley, a thwarted women's fashion designer who used his consolation  career as a mechanical engineer to become the Calvin Klein of space wear, died on Sunday at the Ohio Masonic Home in Springfield, Ohio. He was 97. By the time the United States began its efforts at manned 
 William Larsen, a veteran character actor on Broadway, Off Broadway and in regional theater, died on Jan. 21 at his home in Friendswood, Tex. He was 68. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, June. In the 1960's, Mr. Larsen was a founding member of the APA repertory in
 John H. Loudon, who headed the Royal Dutch/Shell Group when it was the world's second largest oil company and guided it through times of turmoil in the Middle East, died on Saturday. He was 90. He died of respiratory failure at the Haarlem Hospital in Haarlem, the Netherlands, his s
 The sun is blazing on the street outside, but it is dark inside the Piedras Negras Restaurant, and it takes visitors a moment before they can clearly see the two bodyguards, wearing cowboy boots and beepers, slouched in chairs facing  the entrance. These men work for the owner, a fr
 Mercer Ellington, a trumpet player, arranger, composer and band leader who had led the Duke Ellington Orchestra since his father's death in 1974, died Thursday in Denmark. He was 76. Mr. Ellington's daughter, Mercedes, said that her father died of heart failure in a Copenhagen hospi
 Edward Adamson, a pioneer in using art to treat mental illness, died last Saturday at his London studio. He was 84. Mr. Adamson believed that "one of the best ways to help people who are mentally or emotionally disturbed is to get them being creative," said Dr. Anthony Stevens, a Ju
 Eligio Panti, a traditional healer whose ancient herbal remedies attracted the attention of modern medical scientists and drew thousands of patients to the door of his humble hut in Belize, died on Sunday in his home in the village of San Antonio. He was 103 and widely regarded as the last 
 John F. Pfeiffer, an executive producer at RCA Red Seal who recorded many of  the great classical musicians of the century during a 47-year career, died on Thursday at his office in Manhattan. He was 75 and lived in Manhattan. Marilyn Egol, a spokeswoman for RCA, said that the cause
 Mercer Ellington, a bandleader who spent much of his career maintaining the musical legacy of his father, Duke Ellington, died on Thursday in Gentofte Hospital in Copenhagen. He was 76. The cause was a heart attack, said his son Paul. Mr. Ellington played more than a few rol
 Dr. Franz K. Reichsman, an expert in psychosomatic medicine, died on Jan. 30  at a nursing home in Vernon, Vt. He was 82 and had suffered a number of strokes  over several years. Dr. Reichsman had lived in Marlboro, Vt., after retiring in 1983 as a professor of medicine and psychiat
 Fred Simmons Keller, an analyst of human behavior and professor emeritus of psychology at Columbia University, died on Feb. 2 at his home in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 97. Dr. Keller, a classmate and early associate of B. F. Skinner, the behaviorist, is remembered as the author of the
 John D. Mattus, an entrepreneur and advocate for people with AIDS, died on Jan. 31 at his home in Manhattan. He was 44. The cause was AIDS-related lymphoma, a friend, Joanna Kimberley, said. Mr. Mattus graduated from Harvard Business School in 1976. He worked at Thomson McKi
 John Philip Paynter, who became a leading authority on marching and concert bands in 43 years as director of bands at Northwestern University near Chicago,  died last Sunday in Glenview Hospital at the age of 67. A resident of Glenview,  Ill., he had been admitted on Jan. 23 after suffering
 Joseph Mindell, an early proponent of using monetary indicators like interest rates and the money supply to make stock market decisions, died on Feb. 4 at St. Vincent's Hospital in New York. Mr. Mindell, a resident of Manhattan, was 86. Mr. Mindell, author of a 1948 textbook, "The S
 Larry Eigner, whose spare, dense and impassioned poetry carried on the tradition of William Carlos Williams, died on Feb. 3 at Alta Bates Hospital in Berkeley, Calif. He was 68. The cause was complications from pneumonia, said Charles Bernstein, a poet and professor of English at th
 Leonard Braun, a former vice chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and Federal transportation official, died on Monday at North Shore University Hospital in Glen Cove, L.I. Mr. Braun, a resident of Great Neck, L.I., was 73. The cause was prostate cancer, said Ilene M
 Dr. Lester L. Luntz, a pioneer in the field of forensic dentistry, died on Tuesday at his home here. He was 72. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Dr. Luntz helped to develop the science of examining teeth, dental structures and bite marks so they could be submit
 Percy Zell Michener, a master builder whose crowning achievement in 40 years  as a civil engineer was the 18-mile-long Chesapeake Bay Bridge-Tunnel, died on Feb. 2 in Scottsdale Memorial Hospital in Arizona. He was 92 and lived in Scottsdale. Mr. Michener was the chief engineer and 
 S. Heagan Bayles, a founder of SSC&B, a major New York advertising agency, died of cancer on Jan. 30 at his retirement home in Fort Lauderdale. He was 85. In 1946, Mr. Bayles founded SSC&B with three colleagues: Raymond Sullivan, Donald Stauffer and Robert Colwell. Aware that the ad
 Thomas Everett Harris, a veteran labor lawyer who was one of the original members of the Federal Election Commission and served as its chairman, died on Tuesday in Alexandria Hospital in Alexandria, Va. He was 83 and lived in Alexandria. The cause was brain injuries from a fall in h
 Yoshinari Yamashiro, the chairman of the NKK Corporation, Japan's second-largest steelmaker, died Tuesday evening at the Keio University hospital  in Tokyo. He was 72. The cause of death was pneumonia, a company spokeswoman said. Mr. Yamashiro, a native of Niigata in northwe
 Frank J. Remington, a University of Wisconsin law professor who made his classroom the pivot point of a far-reaching legal career that ranged from revising the nation's criminal laws to keeping college athletic programs honest, died on Friday at his home in Madison. He was 73. His w
 Isaiah Kehinde (I. K.) Dairo, a Nigerian musician who was an important innovator in juju music, died on Wednesday in Efon-Alaiye, Nigeria, where he lived. He was 65. The cause was complications from diabetes, said Chris Waterman, the author of "Juju" (University of Chicago Press, 19
 Francisco M. Garcia, leader of the 1960's pop quartet Cannibal and the Headhunters, died on Jan. 21 at Kaiser Permanente Medical Center. He was 49. His brother Albert said he had died after a long illness but provided no further details. Mr. Garcia and his group were best kn
 Haskell L. Lazere, who was executive director of the New York chapter of the  American Jewish Committee from 1969 to 1989 and helped found various human rights coalitions in New York City, died on Saturday at his home on the Upper East Side. He was 75. The cause was cancer, said Fra
 Louis L. Ward, a businessman who built Russell Stover Candies Inc. into the nation's largest manufacturer and distributor of gift-packaged candy, died on Saturday at his home in Kansas City, Mo. He was 76. Mr. Ward retired as president and chairman of Russell Stover Candies after a 
 Maurice Kelley, an authority on the poet John Milton and emeritus professor of English at Princeton University, died on Feb. 5 at the Medical Center in Princeton, N.J. He was 92 and lived in Princeton. Mr. K'lley was born in the Oklahoma Territory, graduated Phi Beta Kappa from  the
 Dr. S. Ward Casscells, who helped revolutionize sports medicine as a pioneer  in arthroscopic surgery, died on Thursday at the home of a son in Houston. He was 80. The cause of death was leukemia, according to the son, Dr. S. Ward Casscells  3d, a professor of medicine and chief of 
 Just before sunrise on Sept. 1, 1939, minutes after the first shots of World  War II were fired by invading German troops, a 27-year-old Luftwaffe pilot began dropping bombs from his Henschel 123 biplane on Polish infantry positions near the frontier town of Panki. On April 26, 1945
 Charlie Conerly, the quarterback who led the New York Giants to the 1956 National Football League championship and held virtually all of the club's career passing records until Phil Simms surpassed them, died yesterday in Methodist Hospital in Memphis. He was 74. Conerly, who lived 
 Martin Balsam, a heavyset, baldish character actor whose talents earned him an Oscar, a Tony and roles in scores of films and plays and hundreds of television shows over more than half a century, died yesterday in his hotel room in Rome while on vacation there. Mr. Balsam, who lived on the 
 Del Ennis, a slugging outfielder for the Philadelphia Phillies and a star on  the 1950 National League pennant-winning team dubbed the Whiz Kids, died last Thursday at his home in Huntingdon Valley, Pa. He was 70. The cause of death was complications from diabetes, the Phillies said
 Ernest Samuels, whose monumental prize-winning biography of Henry Adams was hailed as a model of painstaking scholarship and subtle interpretation, died on  Monday at his home in Evanston, Ill. He was 92. The massively researched, revisionist biography by Mr. Samuels, a literary sch
 Cecil Head, one of the nation's leading bridge players half a century ago, died in his hometown, Fort Branch, Ind., last Wednesday. He was 85 and died of congestive heart failure, said his wife, Olivia. Mr. Head set records in winning the National Life Master Pair Championship in 19
 The Rev. Bruno Hussar, the founder of Neve Shalom/Wahat al-Salam, a community in Israel dedicated to improving understanding between Arabs and Jews, died on Feb. 8 in the French Hospice in Jerusalem after a brief illness. He was 84. Father Hussar began Neve Shalom/Wahat al-Salam, wh
 The Rev. James John Shanahan, a Jesuit priest who, as its 15th president, led St. Peter's College in Jersey City through a period of robust growth, died on Monday at the Murray-Weigel Home at Fordham University in the Bronx. He was 88. He was president from 1949 to 1961, years that 
 Peter P. Muirhead, an educator who helped shape and administer groundbreaking Federal legislation on education, died on Monday at his winter home in Stuart, Fla. He was 84 and lived in Alexandria, Va. Mr. Muirhead began his career as a teacher in Avon, N.Y., and went on to the  Unit
 Ryotaro Shiba, a writer known for his long historical novels, died on Monday  after suffering from internal bleeding and lapsing into a coma two days earlier. He was 72. Mr. Shiba started writing historical novels after World War II and won the prestigious Naoki Prize for his 1959 n
 Sheldon K. Beren, an oil executive who championed Orthodox Jewish education,  died on Monday at the Texas Medical Center in Houston, where he was being treated for cancer. He was 73 and lived in Denver. At his death he owned the Berenenergy Corporation of Denver, a family business e
 Steven Slepack was as bright as anyone who ever came out of Brooklyn, and when he won a full science scholarship to the University of Hawaii he appeared well on his way to a successful career as a marine biologist. But for all his academic promise, Mr. Slepack wasn't cut out for col
 Wally Findlay, an art dealer to socially prominent collectors in New York City, Palm Beach, Chicago and Paris, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 92. Mr. Findlay, whose full name was Walstein Chester Findlay Jr., was born in 1903 in Kansas City, Mo., the son an
 David Rae Smith, a baritone with the New York City Opera since 1962, died on  Wednesday at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 65. The cause was lung cancer, a spokeswoman for the City Opera said. Mr. Smith made his debut with the company in 1962 as Bill Bobstay in "H. M
 Dr. Ernst Weber, an electrical engineer who helped turn the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn into one of the nation's foremost science-engineering centers, Polytechnic University, died on Thursday at the Tryon Estates retirement community in Columbus, N.C. He was 94 and had moved from Moun
 Dr. Gerhard Dessauer, a nuclear physicist who worked on the Manhattan Project developing the atomic bomb and at the Bikini Atoll test site before pursuing a career at E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, died on Sunday at his home in Savannah, Ga. He was 85. Dr. Dessauer retired in 1
 McLean Stevenson, who played the amiable, slipshod Lieut. Col.  Henry Blake on the television series "M*A*S*H" for three seasons, died on Thursday at the Tarzana Regional Medical Center in Tarzana, Calif., near Los Angeles. He was 66. The cause was a heart attack, The Associated Pre
 Nazaret Cherkezian, a retired television producer and telecommunications specialist, died on Monday at his home in McLean, Va. He was 71. The cause of death was a brain tumor. Mr. Cherkezian had worked for the Smithsonian Institution until 1987, directing its Office of Telec
 Syl Veitch, a trainer whose horses won two Belmont Stakes, died on Wednesday  at Winthrop Hospital in Mineola, L.I., after a brief illness. He was 85. Mr. Veitch, who won the Belmont in 1947 with Phalanx and in 1951 with Counterpoint, was inducted into racing's Hall of Fame in 1971 
 Bruno F. Straub, a scientist who was President of Hungary in the waning days  of Communism, died on Thursday, the state radio said. He was 82. Mr. Straub served as President, a largely ceremonial role, in 1988 and 1989,  when he was replaced by Matyas Szueroes, who declared the end 
 Edmund G. (Pat) Brown, the former Governor of California who fathered the state's modern economic boom with expansive government programs to build freeways, vast water systems and public universities open to all at low cost, died on Friday at his home here. He was 90. Mr. Brown died
 Sir George Trevelyan, a British baronet who was prominent in the New Age movement, died on Feb. 7 at 89. He had a home in Badminton, near Bristol, in western England. Sir George, who inherited his title in 1958 from his father, Sir Charles Trevelyan, the third baronet, inspired diff
 Gustave Solomon, a mathematician whose work was important in the world of digital information, died on Jan. 31 at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 65 and had lived in the Los Angeles area since 1961. His death was reported to The Times on Thursday by his brother Julius Solom
 Brownie McGhee, the blues guitarist and singer who brought fingerpicking Piedmont blues to an international audience, died on Friday at Summit Hospital in Oakland, Calif., where he lived. He was 80. The cause was stomach cancer, said a daughter, Vilhelmina. In a long-running
 Tommy Rettig, the first boy to play Lassie's master on television, was found  dead in his home in Marina del Rey on Thursday. He was 54. The cause of death was not known, the Los Angeles County coroner's office said. Mr. Rettig was already a child star with movie and stage c
 Charles O. Finley, the contentious and colorful former owner of the Oakland A's who challenged baseball tradition by championing changes like bright-colored uniforms and the designated hitter, died yesterday at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. He was 77. Finley, who lived 
 Pierre Verger, a worldly Parisian-born photographer whose quest for the natural life led him to an unlikely paradise in northeastern Brazil, died on Feb. 11 at his home in Salvador, the capital of the coastal Bahia state, where he was at once a renowned authority on the cultural links with 
 Harry Coyle, a director who pioneered the on-air look of televised baseball games over a 42-year career, died on Monday at Mercy Hospital in Des Moines. He  was 74. The cause of death was a heart attack, which followed a stroke Mr. Coyle suffered last week, his wife, Ramona, said.  
 Toru Takemitsu, a prolific composer known for his intensely introspective and usually gently etched concert works as well as for the dozens of colorful, evocative scores he wrote for Japanese films, died yesterday at Toranomen Hospital in Tokyo. He was 65 and had homes in Tokyo and in the m
 Ben Schley, a fly fisherman whose companions included Presidents and anyone else who shared his reverence for nature, died on Saturday at a hospital in Martinsburg, W.Va. He was 80 and lived in Shepherdstown, W.Va., not far from the upper reaches of the Potomac River, which had captured his
 Michael J. Deutch, who fled Lenin's Russia and Hitler's Europe for the United States, helped invent the chemical process for making synthetic rubber in World  War II and advised American military and foreign policy officials, died on Monday at the Washington Hospice. He was 88. He d
 Morton Gould, an American composer whose long and fruitful career did much to erase the lines between between concert and popular idioms, died yesterday at a  hotel in Orlando, Fla. He was 82. Mr. Gould had been in Florida as the guest of the Disney Institute and was in the middle o
 Ernest Manning, a Premier of Alberta for 25 years and father of the right-wing opposition leader Preston Manning, died on Monday at his home in Calgary, his son said. He was 87. Mr. Manning, who began his public career as a radio evangelist, served as Premier from 1943 to 1968, repr
 Frank C. Newman, a former judge of the California Supreme Court and an authority on constitutional rights, died on Sunday in an Oakland hospital. He was 78 and lived in Orinda, Calif. The cause was heart failure, his family said. Judge Newman was a professor of international
 Samuel M. Wishik, a professor emeritus of public health at Columbia University who helped devise family planning and health programs throughout the  world, died on Monday at Thornton Hospital in San Diego. He was 89 and lived in  the La Jolla section of San Diego since retiring from Columbi
 Brian Daley, the author of "The Doomfarers of Coramonde" and other works of fantasy and science fiction, including three "Star Wars" novels, died on Sunday  at his home in Arnold, Md., near Annapolis. He was 48. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, Lucia St. Clair Robson.
 Grant Sawyer, a two-erm Governor of Nevada who sought to rid the gaming industry of the influence of organized crime, died here on Monday night. He was  77. The cause was complications from a stroke he suffered in July 1993, his family said. Mr. Sawyer, a Democrat, was elect
 Dr. Harry Felix Swartz, one of the nation's foremost authorities on allergies and their remedies, died on Tuesday at Roosevelt Hospital. He was 84 and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. Dr. Swartz, who was in private practice most of his career, wrote prodigiously about his 
 Herve Bazin, a highly regarded French novelist and for the last two decades the president of the Goncourt Academy, which awards France's most prestigious literary prize, died last Saturday at his home near Angers, the Loire Valley city in which he was born. He was 84. The announceme
 Roger Bowen, a writer and actor who played the high-living, foggy-minded Col. Henry Blake in the movie "M*A*S*H" and who was a founder of the Second City Theater in Chicago, died on Feb. 16 while vacationing in Marathon, Fla. He was 63 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a heart a
 Roger-A. d'Hulst, an authority on the art of Peter Paul Rubens and Jacob Jordaens, died in Brussels on Feb. 15. He was 77. Dr. d'Hulst earned a Ph.D. in art history from the University of Ghent in 1955, writing his dissertation on Jacob Jordaens's drawings. In 1959 he was co-founder
 Samuel Hirsch, a former drama editor of The Boston Herald, died on Feb. 15 at his home in Thousand Oaks, Calif. He was 79. Mr. Hirsch was born in Brooklyn, attended Trenton High School in New Jersey and graduated from the University of North Carolina. He attended the Neighbo
 William Hogan, literary editor of The San Francisco Chronicle for 27 years, died on Wednesday at Kaiser Hospital in San Rafael, Calif. He was 82. Among the writers whose talents Mr. Hogan recognized and encouraged early in  their careers were Kurt Vonnegut Jr., Alex Haley, William S
 Frederick Longfellow Strong, a former New York City judge who retired in 1972 after 30 years on the bench, died on Feb. 17 in Bangor, Me. Mr. Strong, a resident of the Upper East Side of Manhattan until three years ago, was 93 and lived in Bangor and Roque Bluffs, Me., the family's summer h
 Glenn Parker, a pianist who accompanied singers and directed the accompanying and coaching program at Westminster Choir College in Princeton, N.J., died on Feb. 15 at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 40 and lived in Manhattan. Anne Sears, the director of external affairs 
 Rabbi Marvin Fox, a scholar of Jewish thought and former director of the Department of Near Eastern and Judaic Studies at Brandeis University in Waltham, Mass., died on Feb. 8 at his home in Newton, Mass. He was 73. The cause was lung cancer, the university reported. Dr. Fox
 Tom Costello, an actor who was a founding member of Andre Gregory's Manhattan Project and a frequent performer in the puppet plays of Theodora Skipitares, died on Feb. 18 at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 58. His wife, Abigail, said the cause was pancreatic cancer.     
 Dr. Rolla Bennett Hill, a former chairman of the pathology department at the  Upstate Medical Center of the State University of New York at Syracuse, died on  Feb. 12 at a retirement home in Philo, Calif. He was 66. The cause was cancer, Dr. Bernard M. Wagner, a friend and associate
 George Russell, a former vice chairman of General Motors Corporation, died on Wednesday at the Palm Beach Gardens Hospital in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 90. As vice chairman of the corporation from 1967 until he retired in 1970, Mr. Russell directed the company's finance and insurance 
 Norman L. Harvey, a former New York State Supreme Court justice in Plattsburgh, died on Feb. 18 at Florida Hospital in Haines City, Fla. He was 77  and had lived in Haines City since moving from his native Canisteo, N.Y., a year ago. The cause was congestive heart failure, his siste
 Serge Sabarsky, an internationally known art dealer and leading authority on  German and Austrian Expressionist art, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 83 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Sabarsky organized museum exhibitions in cities around the world, from Toky
 Dan Kiley, the psychologist whose 1983 book, "The Peter Pan Syndrome," became an international best seller and led to a wave of copycat pop-psychology books,  died on Saturday in Tucson, Ariz. He was 54. His wife, JoAnne, said he had suffered a heart attack after playing handball.  
 Joseph S. Robinson, whose long career as a lawyer was highlighted by a series of cases involving military brutality, stolen royal treasure and jurisdiction over a soldier accused of killing a Japanese civilian, died on Wednesday at his  home in Westhampton, L.I. Mr. Robinson, who also maint
 Niall MacDermot, who was Secretary General of the International Committee of  Jurists for 20 years and a former British Labor Government minister, has died at the age of 79, the committee announced today. The committee, which links senior jurists around the globe in campaigning for 
 Ralph Quattrociocchi, a four-term Democratic state senator who lost a bitter  comeback race after joining the Republican Party, died on Saturday at his home in the suburb of Greece. He was 66. The cause was a heart attack, according to a spokeswoman at the Park Ridge Hospital, where
 Stanley (Skippy) Shapoff, a longtime horse trainer who ran second with his colt Hudson County in the 1974 Kentucky Derby, died Sunday at St. Francis Hospital in Roslyn, N.Y. He was 78 years old and had suffered in recent years from a heart condition. Mr. Shapoff was born in Louisvil
 Vehbi Koc, who left school as a teen-ager to open a small grocery store and in eight decades amassed Turkey's most formidable financial empire, died on Sunday. He was 94. Mr. Koc suffered a heart attack while vacationing at his hotel in the Mediterranean coastal city of Antalya.    
 George Iain Murray, the 10th Duke of Atholl, who was one of Scotland's richest landowners and the commander of of Britain's only private army, died yesterday at a hospital in Perth, Scotland. He was 64 and had suffered a stroke in December at Blair Castle, the family seat in the Per
 Dr. Frederick G. Adams, a Hartford dentist and public-health champion who was Connecticut's Health Commissioner under Gov. William A. O'Neill, died on Sunday  at his Hartford home of complications from Lou Gehrig's disease. He was 64. His illness, a debilitating disease of the nervo
 Joseph W. Barr, a former Treasury Secretary, Congressman and bank executive,  died on Friday in Playa del Carmen, Mexico, where he was vacationing. He was 78  and lived in Hume, Va. The cause was a heart attack, The Associated Press reported. A Democrat, Mr. Barr began a dec
 Malcolm T. Wordell, a World War II fighter pilot who won three Distinguished  Flying Cross medals and graduated from the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis without a blemish on his record, died here on Monday. He was 84. Mr. Wordell, a retired Navy captain, led a flight of Nav
 Albert J. Amateau, who spent years as a social worker, rabbi, lawyer, Federal official and businessman and still found room for a lifetime of civic and charitable endeavors, died on Feb. 9 at his home in Santa Rosa, Calif. He was 106. A native of Turkey, where his maternal grandfath
 Rene C. McPherson, a former chairman and chief executive of the Dana Corporation and later dean of the Stanford Business School, died on Feb. 26 at his home in North Key Largo, Fla. He was 71. Mr. McPherson died of pancreatic cancer, said Gary Corrigan, a Dana Corporation spokesman.
 Solomon E. Asch, a pioneering social psychologist who studied how peer pressure shapes human behavior but believed that most people act decently when they are not shackled by ignorance, died on Feb. 20 at his home in Haverford, Pa. He was 88. Dr. Asch had been an emeritus professor 
 Vic Janowicz, the Ohio State football star who won the 1950 Heisman Trophy, died on Tuesday at Riverside Methodist Hospital in Columbus, Ohio. He was 66. The cause was cancer, a hospital spokesman, Chris Verrilli, said. Janowicz's Heisman season established him as one of the
