Dr. John P. Hagen, a solar radio astronomer who in the late 1950's directed the United States' first major space effort, died last Sunday at a convalescent home in Las Vegas, Nev. He was 82 years old and lived in Las Vegas. Dr. John P. Hagen, a solar radio astronomer who in th
Dr. Lot B. Page, a physician associated with the National Institute on Aging who also served as chief of medicine at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Manchester, N.H., died on Wednesday at his home in Lincoln, Mass. He was 67 years old. Dr. Lot B. Page, a physician assoc
Edmund G. Love, a writer whose book ''Subways Are for Sleeping'' was the basis for the Broadway musical of the same name, died Thursday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Flint, Mich. He was 78 years old. Edmund G. Love, a writer whose book ''Subways Are for Sleeping'' was the basis 
Harry A. Starr, an executive in New York's garment trucking industry, died on Aug. 17 at his home in Montclair, N.J. He was 71 years old. Harry A. Starr, an executive in New York's garment trucking industry, died on Aug. 17 at his home in Montclair, N.J. He was 71 years old.  
The Most Rev. Lawrence J. Kenney, Auxiliary Bishop of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese for the Military Services, died Thursday at the residence of John Cardinal O'Connor in Manhattan. He was 60 years old and lived in Washington. The Most Rev. Lawrence J. Kenney, Auxiliary Bisho
The Rev. Dr. Wellman Joel Warner, a retired social psychologist and an educator, died on Thursday at Griffin Hospital in Derby, Conn. He was 93 years old and lived in Shelton, Conn. The Rev. Dr. Wellman Joel Warner, a retired social psychologist and an educator, died on Thursd
Richard W. Greenebaum, a former business editor who in the 1950's managed the Brazilian operations of IBEC, a Rockefeller Brothers housing venture in Latin America, died on Sunday at Central Suffolk Hospital in Riverhead, L.I. He was 78 years old and lived in Manhattan and in Remsenbu
Samuel Houston Mayes, the principal cellist of the Boston Symphony Orchestra and the Philadelphia Orchestra for many years, died on Aug. 24 at his home in Mesa, Ariz. He was 73 years old. Samuel Houston Mayes, the principal cellist of the Boston Symphony Orchestra and the Phil
James H. Donovan, a longtime State Senator who played an important role in shaping state policy on education and transportation during the last 25 years, died today at his home in Chadwicks, near Utica. He was 66 years old. James H. Donovan, a longtime State Senator who played
William C. Schraft Jr., a pathologist and president of the Westchester County Board of Health, died on Thursday while vacationing with his family in Stonington, Conn. He was 69 years old and lived in New Rochelle. William C. Schraft Jr., a pathologist and president of the West
Edwin O. Reischauer, a scholar who specialized in East Asian affairs and who served as United States Ambassador to Japan from 1961 to 1966, died yesterday at Green Hospital of the Scripps Clinic and Research Foundation La Jolla, Calif. He was 79 years old and lived in Belmont, Mass., 
Nat (Sweetwater) Clifton, one of the first black players in the National Basketball Association and a popular star with the New York Knick teams of the 1950's, died Friday in Chicago, apparently of a heart attack. He was 65 years old. Nat (Sweetwater) Clifton, one of the first
C. Dale Badgeley, an architect who designed the overall scheme for the 1939-40 New York World's Fair, died last Monday at his home in Old Field, L.I. His death, at the age of 91, resulted from a heart attack, a family spokesman said. He outfitted many offices for Mayor Fiorell
Robert Holmes a Court, a South African immigrant who became one of Australia's most successful entrepreneurs and corporate raiders, died of a heart attack early this morning at his horse farm near Perth in Western Australia. He was 53 years old. Mr. Holmes a Court, an accomplished cor
A. James Casner, the Austin Wakeman Scott emeritus professor of law at Harvard Law School, died Friday. He was 83 years old and lived in Nonquitt, South Dartmouth, and Cambridge, Mass. Professor Casner died after a brief illness, said a spokesman for the family, who declined t
A. Reynolds Crane, a pathologist and former president of the Philadelphia and Pennsylvania Medical Societies, died Wednesday at his home in Radnor, Pa. He was 81 years old. His family said he died of cancer.  Dr. Crane was a senior member emeritus of the scientific staff of the Fox Ch
Dr. Eugene Moskowitz, a specialist in physical medicine and rehabilitation, died on Saturday at Sharon Hospital in Connecticut. He was 78 years old and lived in Salisbury, Conn. His wife, Virginia, said her husband died of colon cancer. Dr. Moskowitz was director of th
Hugh F. Owens, a former member of the Securities and Exchange Commission who served for a time as its acting chairman, died Saturday at a nursing home in Oklahoma City. He was 80 years old. A family spokesman said Mr. Owens died of a heart attack after suffering a stroke.     
Paul J. McCluskey, a vice president of Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, who headed the book publisher's school department, died on Thursday at his home in Orlando, Fla., at the age of 48. Mr. McCluskey, who joined the publishing concern in 1968, did early work in electronic publishi
Stanley Fafinski, former chief of the Army engineering division in the New York District of the Army Corps of Engineers, died on Friday at Somerset Hospital in New Jersey. He was 56 years old and lived in Basking Ridge, N.J., where he moved last year after having lived in Queens many 
Adrian Phillips, a former hotel executive and former president of the Miss America Pageant, died on Tuesday at his home outside Atlantic City. He was 91 years old. He was the oldest member of the pageant organization and had planned to attend this year's finale on Saturday des
Ivan Mihailoff, a Macedonian revolutionary who waged a futile lifelong struggle to free his native land on the Balkan Peninsula from domination by Turkey, Bulgaria, Greece and Yugoslavia, died yesterday in Rome, where he had lived since 1947. He was 94 years old. In the 1920's
The Rev. John Lawrence Denny, a priest in the Episcopal Diocese of Newark and an associate at St. Anthony of Padua in Hackensack, died on Monday at Hackensack (N.J.) Medical Center. He was 70 years old and lived in Hackensack and in Southhold, L.I. Mr. Denny was an executive w
Dr. Russell Nelson DeJong, a neurologist and educator, died Aug. 20 at his daughter's home in Mount Pleasant, Mich. He was 83 years old and lived in Mount Pleasant. A spokesman for the family said he died of cerebral vascular disease. Dr. DeJong, a graduate of the University of Michig
Samuel Oliver Shapiro, a retired vice president and former circulation director of Cowles Communications Inc., died on Tuesday at Beth Israel Hospital. He was 87 years old and lived in Manhattan. His wife, Toni Mendez Shapiro, said he died of pneumonia. His wife, Toni Mendez S
W. Craig Bennett, a vice president with Citicorp and a New York City official in the Lindsay administration, died on Monday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 45 years old and lived in Glen Ridge, N.J. At Citicorp, Mr. Bennett was a vice preside
Brewster H. Morris, a career Foreign Service officer who was Ambassador to Chad from 1963 to 1967, died on Monday at his home in Tiburon, Calif. He was 81 years old. His brother, Theodore, said he died of Parkinson's disease. His brother, Theodore, said he died of Parkinson's 
Norbert J. Roberts, a past president of the New York Academy of Medicine and retired vice president for medicine and environmental health at the Exxon Corporation, died last Saturday at Blake Memorial Hospital in Bradenton, Fla. He was 74 years old and lived in Holmes Beach, Fla.     
Edward L. Bowles, an electrical engineer who played an important part in developing radar for the armed forces in World War II, died Wednesday at the Weston Manor nursing home in Weston, Mass. He was 92. Mr. Bowles was called to Washington from the Massachusetts Institute of T
Jay Lloyd Block, a chemist and designer of ceramic plates, porcelain and crystal, died on Wednesday while jogging near his home in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y. He was 62 years old. Mr. Block was president of the Block China Corporation, a Manhattan-based designer and manufacturer of
John A. Haeseler, a film maker and a leader in the early days of scientific and educational films, died Tuesday at Physicians' Community Hospital in San Isidro, Calif. He was 90 years old and lived in Lafayette, Calif. He died of pneumonia, his son Rob said.  Mr. Haeseler embarked on 
Lord Caradon, a former chief British representative at the United Nations who earlier helped six colonies gain independence, died Wednesday in a nursing home in Plymouth, England. The cause of his death, at the age of 82, was not disclosed. Hugh Mackintosh Foot was born in Ply
Louis F. Thompson, former chairman of the English department at Bloomsburg University in Pennsylvania, died Monday at the Geisinger Medical Center in Danville, Pa. He was 66 years old and lived in Bloomsburg. He was 66 years old and lived in Bloomsburg. Dr. Thompson, w
Marshall Bridges, a relief pitcher for four major league teams, died of cancer on Monday at the University of Mississippi Medical Center. He was 59 years old. Over seven major league seasons beginning in 1959, he had 23 victories, 15 losses, 25 saves and a 3.75 earned run aver
Wilson S. Johnson, the chief executive of the National Federation of Independent Business, died Aug. 30 at Mills Hospital in San Mateo, Calif. He was 76 years old and lived in San Mateo. A spokesman for the family said Mr. Johnson had died of cancer. A graduate of the 
Alan John Percivale Taylor, the iconoclastic British historian whose more than two dozen books infuriated professional academic historians and delighted a large public, died yesterday at a nursing home in Finchley, North London. He was 84 years old and had been suffering for some time
Alan Kapelner, a novelist and short-story writer, died on Monday in St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 77 years old and lived in Greenwich Village. His wife, Edith, said he died of lung cancer. Mr. Kapelner, a protege of the editor and critic Maxwell Perkins, published two no
Edward Clark Stephan, a retired Navy rear admiral, died Wednesday at Montgomery General Hospital in Olney, Md. He was 83 years old. A family spokeswoman said he died of pneumonia. Admiral Stephan, who was once the Navy's chief oceanographer, graduated from the United S
Fernando Valenti, an American harpsichordist whose skill, intelligence and wit helped popularize his instrument, died Thursday at Riverview Hospital in Red Bank, N.J. He was 63 years old. In a 1985 New York Times review, Will Crutchfield called Mr. Valenti ''probably the dean 
Fitzhugh Green, an author and former government aide, died Wednesday at Newport Hospital in Rhode Island. He was 72 years old and lived in Washington. He died of cardiac arrhythmia, said his daughter, Penelope Green. Mr. Green, a retired officer of the United States In
Howard Barkell, who retired as president of the Phelps Dodge Copper Refining Company in 1978, died on Aug. 28 at his home in Englewood, Fla. He was 76 years old and had lived in Merrick and Shelter Island, L.I., until a decade ago. His family said he died of heart failure. His
Joseph Prisco, a former assistant to the sports editor of The New York Times, died of a heart attack yesterday at his home in Bayside, Queens. He was 76 years old. He was 76 years old. Mr. Prisco, who was born in the Bronx and graduated from Theodore Roosevelt High Sch
K. Blair Benson, a televison engineer who helped develop a broadcast-quality videotape machine, died on Tuesday while traveling to an engineers' conference in Washington. He was 71 years old and lived in Norwalk, Conn. He died of a heart attack, his wife, Dolly, said. He died 
Peter Whittenhall Phelps, a sportsman, painter and fishing-tackle specialist who was a partner in the Bedford Sportsman store in Bedford Hills, N.Y., died of cancer Monday at the Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount Kisco, N.Y. He was 54 years old and lived in Katonah, N.Y. 
Sam Cook Digges, a CBS television and radio executive who in 1957 initiated ''Sunrise Semester,'' the pioneering television course for college credit, died on Monday at Good Samaritan Hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 74 years old and lived in Palm Beach. Mr. Digges was
Jenkin R. Hockert, a judge who served for many years in Queens before he retired in 1964, died on Friday at his home in Boca Raton, Fla. He would have celebrated his 96th birthday today. His family said he died of heart failure. His family said he died of heart failure.       
John W. O'Beirne, a retired special agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation who was once a special assistant to the bureau's Director, died on Wednesday at Holy Cross Hospital in Washington. He was 72 years old and lived in Silver Spring, Md. His family said he died after a heart
Dr. Robert L. Custer, a psychiatrist who in 1974 established the nation's first clinic for treatment of compulsive gambling, died Tuesday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 63 years old. Dr. Custer was widely recognized as a pioneer in helping compulsive gamblers. At a time w
Townsend T. Kieffer, a journalist and publicity man, died on Aug. 28 at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital. He was 51 years old and had lived in Greenwich for the last two years after returning from Key West, Fla. His family said he died of lung and liver cancer. His family said he di
William Silent Hughes, an investment banker and former governor of stock exchanges on the East and West Coasts, died last Sunday at his home in San Marino, Calif. He was 84 years old. He died of degenerative heart disease, a family spokesman said. Mr. Hughes was presid
Donald C. Dow, an electrical engineer and a retired New York City teacher and guidance counselor, died on Wednesday at his home in South Yarmouth, Mass., at the age of 83. Mr. Dow, a native New Yorker and a graduate of Columbia University, was a research engineer for Bell Labo
Dr. Nathan Sugarman, a nuclear chemist who was a professor at the University of Chicago until he retired in 1987, died Thursday at the age of 73. His family said he died in an accident at his home in the Hyde Park section of Chicago. In World War II, Dr. Sugarman, then attache
James D. Seamen, a clinical psychologist who was an official of the Community Research Initiative at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital, died on Wednesday at the hospital. He was 46 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of lymphoma, a spokesman for the hospital said. Si
Salim Fakhri, a prominent exiled opponent of President Saddam Hussein of Iraq, died on Thursday. He was 69 years old. The police said on Saturday that he died of natural causes. ''There is no suspicion of any crime and there is no inquiry,'' a statement said. British n
Bernard Nadel, a retired New York State Supreme Court Justice, died on Sunday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 81 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of complications of Parkinson's disease, said his son, S. Michael Nadel. Justice Nadel was elected to th
Dr. Edward M. Sewell, a Philadelphia pediatrician who specialized in tuberculosis in children, died last Wednesday at the University of Pennsylvania Hospital in Philadelphia. He was 67 years old and lived in Philadelphia. His family said he died of pneumonia resulting from lymphoma.  
Edward A. Montgomery, a retired Marine Corps brigadier general, died Saturday at St. Joseph Hospital in Augusta, Ga. He was 82 years old and lived in Augusta. He died of a heart attack, a funeral home representative said. In World War II, he was operations officer for 
John Hallowell Ohly, a retired government official, died Sunday at the North Adams Regional Hospital in North Adams, Mass. He was 79 years old and lived in Williamstown, Mass. His wife, Elizabeth, said he had died of a stroke. Mr. Ohly held a number of positions in the
Dr. Robert D. Leeper, a specialist in the treatment of thyroid cancer, died yesterday at the Penobscot Bay Medical Center in Rockport, Me. He was 65 years old and lived in Scarsdale, N.Y., and Camden, Me. His family said he died after a stroke. Dr. Leeper was an attend
Roger (Doc) Cramer, who had 2,705 hits over a 20-year major league baseball career, died Sunday at his home in Manahawkin, N.J. He was 85 years old. An outfielder who played from 1929 to 1948, Mr. Cramer had a .296 career batting average. He was a standout defensive player wit
Samuel Kanyon Doe, whose death was reported yesterday, was a 28-year-old master sergeant in the Liberian National Guard in 1980 when he seized power by storming the executive mansion in Monrovia at the head of a band of noncommissioned officers, His coup d'etat, he declared, marked th
Saul Meisels, a cantor who served at a Conservative synagogue in Cleveland for 37 years and was a former national president of the Cantors Assembly, died Friday at Miami Jewish Hospital. He was 82 years old and had lived in retirement in Miami for the last 11 years. His family
William Bales, a modern dancer, choreographer and educator, died on Saturday at St. Clare's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 80 years old. The cause of death was Alzheimer's disease and bladder cancer, his son, Michael, said. Mr. Bales, who was born in Carnegie, Pa., rece
B. Rodney Marriott, a former associate artistic director of the Circle Repertory Company, died Sunday in the Woodlands Nursing Home in Calcutta, India. He was 52 years old and lived in Manhattan. The theater group said the American Consulate in Calcutta attributed his death to
Earle H. Harris, a physician and a founding director of the Health Insurance Plan of Greater New York, died on Sunday at his home in Forest Hills, Queens, at the age of 84. He had been suffering from Parkinson's disease, his family said. Dr. Harris was a retired medical direct
Harry K. Weiss, a retired vice president of Helmsley-Spear Inc., the real-estate concern, died on Monday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 83 years old and also lived in Delray Beach, Fla. His family said he died of lymphoma. His family said he died of lymphoma. Mr
James R. Eiszner, the chief executive of CPC International, one of the nation's largest food companies, died yesterday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 63 years old and lived in Cresskill, N.J. Mr. Eiszner had been chairman of the company since 1987
John O. Berga, a retired Air Force colonel and a nuclear engineer, died Saturday at a Washington-area hospital. He was 61 years old and lived in Falls Church, Va. He died of a heart attack, a spokeswoman for the family said. Mr. Berga was the Washington representative 
John Jay Corson 3d, a former Government official, educator and management consultant, died Sept. 2 at Arlington Hospital in Virginia. He was 84 years old and lived in Fairfax, Va. He died of complications from a stroke, said his son, John Jay 4th. Educated at the Unive
Christopher Cox, an author and a senior editor with Ballantine Books, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan at the age of 41. A spokesman for the publisher said he died of complications from an HIV infection. Christopher Cox, an author and a senior editor with Ballantine Boo
Daniel M. Feins, a teacher and an administrator in the New York City public schools for almost 40 years and the former principal of Walton High School in the Bronx, died on Monday at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 73 years old and lived in Yonkers. Daniel M. Fein
Leo Mirkovic, an opera singer in Europe before World War II, who became a well-known cantor in New York and Washington, died on Friday in Miami. He was 86 years old and had moved to Miami in 1974. Leo Mirkovic, an opera singer in Europe before World War II, who became a well-k
Paul Magriel, an art collector, connoisseur and former tour guide at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 84 years old. He died of a heart attack, a spokesman for the family said. Mr. Magriel was educated at Columbia University, and in his ea
Philip Donham, a management consultant who was the co-author of a book on the inner workings of Congress, died Monday at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. He was 82 years old and lived in North Weymouth, Mass. Philip Donham, a management consultant who was the co-author 
Rabbi Rubin R. Dobin, an Orthodox rabbi who was active in congregations in Queens and in Miami Beach, Fla., died on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Miami Beach. He was 74 years old and lived in Miami Beach. Rabbi Rubin R. Dobin, an Orthodox rabbi who was active in con
Thomas J. Davis, a founder of the Mayfield Fund, a venture-capital investment firm on the West Coast, died Tuesday at the University Convalescent Hospital in Menlo Park, Calif. He was 77 years old. Thomas J. Davis, a founder of the Mayfield Fund, a venture-capital investment f
Zoltan Rozsnyai, the founder and conductor of the United States International University Orchestra and the former conductor of the San Diego Symphony, was found dead, apparently of a heart attack, at his home on Monday. He was 64 years old. Zoltan Rozsnyai, the founder and con
Daniel T. Brigham, a former correspondent for The New York Times who reported on World War II from Switzerland, died on July 28 in the Bay Area Hospital in Coos Bay, Ore. He was 81 years old and lived in Coos Bay. Daniel T. Brigham, a former correspondent for The New York Time
E. Ralph Lacey, a naval architect and marine engineer who in a 41-year career with the Navy specialized in the preliminary design of submarines, died on Friday at the Saybrook Convalescent Home in Old Saybrook, Conn. He was 78 years old and lived in Lyme, Conn. E. Ralph Lacey,
Francis A. Goodhue Jr., a Manhattan tax lawyer for 50 years, died yesterday at Northern Westchester Hospital Center in Mount Kisco, N.Y. He was 74 years old and lived in Mount Kisco. Francis A. Goodhue Jr., a Manhattan tax lawyer for 50 years, died yesterday at Northern Westch
Frank David Kitchin, the director of the department of Occupational Health at New York Hospital, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 66 years old. Frank David Kitchin, the director of the department of Occupational Health at New York Hospital, died on Monday at his
Dr. John Bowlby, the British psychiatrist whose work on the bond between mother and child profoundly influenced psychotherapy and child psychology, died Sept. 2 at his vacation home on the Isle of Skye. He was 83 years old. Dr. John Bowlby, the British psychiatrist whose work 
John E. Reeves, former chairman of Reeves Brothers, Inc., a Manhattan textile manufacturer, died on Tuesday at Overlook Hospital in Summit, N.J. He was 77 years old and lived in Summit. John E. Reeves, former chairman of Reeves Brothers, Inc., a Manhattan textile manufacturer,
Michael G. Cooke, a professor of English at Yale University and an authority on the English Romantic Movement and African and Caribbean literature, died on Tuesday at St. Raphael's Hospital in New Haven. He had turned 56 years old on Tuesday and lived in Bethany, Conn. Michael
Robert L. Nikirk, librarian of the Grolier Club for the last two decades and a specialist in antiquarian books, died on Sept. 5 at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 51 years old and lived in Manhattan. A family friend said he died of AIDS-related pneumonia. Mr. Nikirk was in
Roger Garlock Barker, an educator and psychologist, died Monday at his home in Oskaloosa, Kan. He was 87 years old. Roger Garlock Barker, an educator and psychologist, died Monday at his home in Oskaloosa, Kan. He was 87 years old. His son, Jonathan Barker of Toronto, 
Samuel S. Stratton, a former Congressman who represented the Albany and Schenectady area for 30 years and was a longtime member of the House Armed Services Committee, died yesterday at Shady Grove Hospital in Gaithersburg, Md. He was 73 years old and had lived for the last year in the
Thomas J. Reynolds, professor emeritus of economics at Rutgers University, died on Monday at St. Mary's Hospital in Newtown, Pa. He was 78 years old and lived in Newtown. Thomas J. Reynolds, professor emeritus of economics at Rutgers University, died on Monday at St. Mary's Ho
Ben Smathers, whose agile legs and fast feet helped spread the popularity of clog dancing during a 32-year career on the Grand Ole Opry, died Thursday. He was 61 years old. Ben Smathers, whose agile legs and fast feet helped spread the popularity of clog dancing during a 32-ye
Charles Rahn Fry, a bibliophile and collector of pochoir, a colored stenciling process that flourished in France at the turn of the century, died on Wednesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 47 years old and lived in Manhattan. A spokesman for the center said Mr. Fry
David Tufts, a New York shipping consultant, died on Thursday at a nursing home in Stamford, Conn. He was 75 years old and lived in Old Greenwich. David Tufts, a New York shipping consultant, died on Thursday at a nursing home in Stamford, Conn. He was 75 years old and lived i
Giancarlo Pajetta, a longtime member of the Italian Communist Party leadership and a member of the nation's Parliament, died on Wednesday at his home in Rome. He was 79 years old. Giancarlo Pajetta, a longtime member of the Italian Communist Party leadership and a member of th
Harvey J. Nuland, a certified public accountant and a nationally recognized specialist in the accounting management of union health plans, died on Thursday at his home in New City, N.Y. He was 63 years old.  He died of intestinal cancer, said his brother, Dr. Sherwin B. Nuland of Hamd
Irvin Husin, a Manhattan lawyer and former president of the New York Federation of Reform Synagogues, an influential Jewish congregational group, died on Thursday at his home in Queens. He was 84 years old. Irvin Husin, a Manhattan lawyer and former president of the New York F
Jason L. Honigman, a corporate lawyer and the founder of one of Michigan's most powerful law firms, died Wednesday at his home in Beverly Hills, Mich. He was 85 years old. Jason L. Honigman, a corporate lawyer and the founder of one of Michigan's most powerful law firms, died 
Larry Forde, a theatrical director and production stage manager, died on Aug. 23 at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 57 years old and lived in Manhattan. His family said he had died of liver failure. Mr. Forde directed the Off Broadway musical ''Oil City Symphony.'' He directed Mark Connel
Percy Buchanan, a retired investment banker and the former director of the research department at Morgan Stanley & Company died on Sept. 8 at St. Barnabas Medical Center in Livingston, N.J. He was 95 years old and lived in Maplewood, N.J. Percy Buchanan, a retired investment b
Samuel S. Stratton, a former Congressman who represented the Albany and Schenectady area for 30 years and was a longtime member of the House Armed Services Committee, died on Thursday at Shady Grove Hospital in Gaithersburg, Md. He was 73 years old and had lived for the last year in t
Tom Fogerty, rhythm guitarist for the popular 1960's band Creedence Clearwater Revival, died Sept. 6. He was 48 years old. Tom Fogerty, rhythm guitarist for the popular 1960's band Creedence Clearwater Revival, died Sept. 6. He was 48 years old. The cause of death was 
Yusuke Suga, a Japanese hair stylist who was well known in New York fashion circles, died on Thursday in Tokyo. He was 47 years old and lived in Manhattan. Yusuke Suga, a Japanese hair stylist who was well known in New York fashion circles, died on Thursday in Tokyo. He was 47
Alfred L. Hollender, a retired New York businessman and advertising executive and a former producer of popular game shows in the 1950's and early 60's, died on Thursday at his home in Water Mill, L.I. He was 87 years old and also lived in Palm Beach, Fla. Alfred L. Hollender, 
Howell Arthur Inghram, professor emeritus of accounting at Columbia University, died on Thursday at Walton County Hospital in Monroe, Ga. He was 94 years old and lived in Monroe. Howell Arthur Inghram, professor emeritus of accounting at Columbia University, died on Thursday a
Dr. Leonid Tarassuk, an expert on arms and armor at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and his wife, the former Nina Rostovzova, died in an automobile accident on Tuesday in the village of Quimper in the Brittany section of France, officials of the museum reported. Dr. Leonid Tar
Stanley R. Kay, an authority on schizophrenia, died on Monday in Kyoto, Japan where he was attending a medical conference. He was 44 years old and lived in Mahopac, N.Y. Stanley R. Kay, an authority on schizophrenia, died on Monday in Kyoto, Japan where he was attending a medi
Walter J. Petry Sr., a member of the board of the Harlem Y.M.C.A. for 50 years, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 86 years old and lived in Manhattan. Walter J. Petry Sr., a member of the board of the Harlem Y.M.C.A. for 50 years, died on Wednesday at his home
Harold S. Carlson, an educator, former chairman of the American Association of State Psychology Boards and former president of the New Jersey Psychology Association, died yesterday in Vassar Brothers Hospital in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. He was 87 years and lived in Amenia, N.Y. Haro
Steve Condos, who won widespread acclaim as a tap-dance virtuoso in recent years after a lifelong career in films and vaudeville, died shortly after performing at the Lyons International Dance Biennial in France tonight. Mr. Condos was 71 years old and lived in Hollywood, Fla.        
David Lester, a medical researcher who did extensive studies of alcoholism and a professor emeritus of biochemistry at Rutgers University, died on Saturday at the Medical Center in Princeton, N.J. He was 74 years old and lived in Princeton. David Lester, a medical researcher w
Dr. Cushman D. Haagensen, a leading cancer specialist who advocated radical mastectomies as the best hope for curing breast cancer, died Sunday at his home in Palisades, N.Y. He was 90 years old. Dr. Cushman D. Haagensen, a leading cancer specialist who advocated radical maste
Edwin Allan Lightner Jr., a former United States Ambassador to Libya and a career Foreign Service officer, died Saturday at his home in Bayside, Me. He was 82 years old. Edwin Allan Lightner Jr., a former United States Ambassador to Libya and a career Foreign Service officer, 
Ernest L. Sommer, a partner in the New York City accounting firm of Sommer, Abraham, died on Sunday at his home in Hillsdale, N.J. He was 64 years old. Ernest L. Sommer, a partner in the New York City accounting firm of Sommer, Abraham, died on Sunday at his home in Hillsdale,
Franklin L. Baumer, a historian at Yale University, died on Friday at Griffin Hospital in Derby, Conn. He was 77 years old and lived in Hamden, Conn. Franklin L. Baumer, a historian at Yale University, died on Friday at Griffin Hospital in Derby, Conn. He was 77 years old and 
George Hardy, a forceful, outspoken labor leader who was among the early organizers of janitors, public employees and health care workers for the Service Employees International Union, died Thursday at Children's Hospital in San Francisco. He was 79 years old and lived in San Francisc
George W. Schoenhut, a retired professor of drama at Dartmouth College, died Thursday at Mary Hitchcock Memorial Hospital in Hanover, N.H. He was 83 years old and lived in Thetford, Vt. A family spokesman said he died of a heart attack. George W. Schoenhut, a retired professor
James W. Kinnear Jr., retired vice president of steel-producing divisions for the United States Steel Corporation, now the USX Corporation, died yesterday at his home in Birmingham, Ala. He was 92 years old. A family spokesman said he died of a heart attack. James W. Kinnear J
Dr. John F. Marchand, a physician, educator and researcher, died on Sunday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 78 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. John F. Marchand, a physician, educator and researcher, died on Sunday at New York Hospital-Corn
Leon Russianoff, a clarinetist who taught at the Juilliard School and the Manhattan School of Music, died Sunday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital. He was 73 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died after a brief illness, his family said. Born in Brooklyn in 1916, Mr. Russianoff began
Roberto Celli, director of the Rockefeller Foundation's Bellagio Study and Conference Center in Italy, died Sept. 8 at a hospital in Milan. He was 52 years old and lived in Bellagio. Roberto Celli, director of the Rockefeller Foundation's Bellagio Study and Conference Center i
Rudolph J. Thomas, who rose from elevator operator to become head of the Harlem Y.M.C.A., died on Wednesday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 86 years old and lived in Manhattan. Rudolph J. Thomas, who rose from elevator operator to become head of th
Walter W. Niebling, a New York financier, died on Sunday at his home in South Hero, Vt. He was 72 years old. Walter W. Niebling, a New York financier, died on Sunday at his home in South Hero, Vt. He was 72 years old. Mr. Niebling died of cancer, a spokesman for the fa
Alfred Kouzel, a film cartoonist who won a 1961 Academy Award for adapting, illustrating and producing ''Munro,'' based on a Jules Feiffer story about a youngster mistakenly drafted into the Army, died on Sept. 6 at a hospital in Trostberg, West Germany, where he was undergoing treatm
Brother Bernard Peter May, a member of the De La Salle Christian Brothers for almost 70 years, died on Monday at the Riverview Medical Center in Red Bank, N.J. He was 85 years old and had lived at De La Salle Hall in Lincroft, N.J., since he retired in 1981. Brother Bernard Pe
Charles Arnt, a character actor in more than 200 films, died on Aug. 6 at his home on Orcas Island, Wash. He was 83 years old. Charles Arnt, a character actor in more than 200 films, died on Aug. 6 at his home on Orcas Island, Wash. He was 83 years old. He died of panc
Francis Leo Hogan Jr., a retired underwriter with the John Hancock Insurance Company, died on Sunday at Montefiore Hospital in the Bronx. He was 77 years old and lived in the Riverdale section. Francis Leo Hogan Jr., a retired underwriter with the John Hancock Insurance Compan
Herbert Spiegelberg, professor emeritus of philosophy at Washington University in St. Louis, died Sept. 6 at his home in St. Louis. He was 86 years old. A university spokesman said he died of leukemia. Herbert Spiegelberg, professor emeritus of philosophy at Washington Univers
James F. Whelan, a Manhattan trucking company executive, died Sunday at Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 86 years old and lived in Ho-Ho-Kus, N.J. James F. Whelan, a Manhattan trucking company executive, died Sunday at Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 86 year
John B. Creegan, a retired New York lawyer, died on Sunday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 80 years old and lived in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. John B. Creegan, a retired New York lawyer, died on Sunday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 8
Dr. John W. DeWire, a high-energy physicist who was a longtime member of the Cornell University faculty, died on Monday at Tompkins Community Hospital in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 74 years old and lived in Ithaca. His family said he died of leukemia. Dr. John W. DeWire, a high-energ
Norman D. Denny, a banker and builder, died Friday at the University of Pennsylvania Hospital. He was 69 years old and lived in Merion, Pa. Norman D. Denny, a banker and builder, died Friday at the University of Pennsylvania Hospital. He was 69 years old and lived in Merion, P
Oliver Butterworth, an author of children's books and a professor of English at Hartford College for Women for 43 years, died on Monday at his home in West Hartford, Conn. He was 75 years old. He died of melanoma, a family spokesman said. His popular allegorical books include ''The En
Roland F. Simons, a retired health-care industry executive, died on Saturday at the Naples Community Hospital in Florida. He was 85 years old and lived in Naples. Roland F. Simons, a retired health-care industry executive, died on Saturday at the Naples Community Hospital in F
Rostislav Nebolsine, a civil engineer and a leader in the White Russian community on the East Coast, died on Sunday at his home in Bridgehampton, L.I. He was 90 years old. He died of a heart attack, a grandson, Paul Klebnikov, said. Rostislav Nebolsine, a civil engineer and a 
Walter Scott McPherson, a retired steamship executive, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was six days short of his 106th birthday. Walter Scott McPherson, a retired steamship executive, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was six days short of his 106th birth
Bernard Silber, a former Western Union employee who was convicted of contempt of Congress charges, a conviction that was later reversed by the United States Supreme Court, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Oakland, Calif. He was 90 years old and moved from Manhattan to Oakland in 1
David C. Anchin, a retired managing partner of Anchin, Block & Anchin, a New York accounting firm, died on Tuesday at the Cleveland Clinic in Ohio. He was 86 years old and lived in Sarasota, Fla. David C. Anchin, a retired managing partner of Anchin, Block & Anchin, a New York
Dr. Arnold P. Friedman, an international authority on migraine headaches, died on Monday at the El Dorado Hospital in Tucson, Ariz. He was 81 years old and lived in Tucson. Dr. Arnold P. Friedman, an international authority on migraine headaches, died on Monday at the El Dorad
Ed Sadowski, who led Seton Hall to its only undefeated season, in 1940, then became a standout in the early years of the National Basketball Association, died of cancer on Tuesday at his home in Wall, N.J. He was 73 years old. Ed Sadowski, who led Seton Hall to its only undefe
Ivan Hill, an advertising executive and founder of the Ethics Resource Center in Washington, died Tuesday at the Northern Illinois Medical Center in McHenry, Ill. He was 83 years old and lived in McLean, Va. A spokesman for the center said he died of cancer. Ivan Hill, an adve
John C. Staton, a retired Coca-Cola executive who designed the company's first cooler and developed its first fountain dispenser, died Sunday at his home in Atlanta at the age of 89. John C. Staton, a retired Coca-Cola executive who designed the company's first cooler and deve
John Miller Dickey, an architect who restored historic buildings in Pennsylvania and New Jersey, died yesterday at his home in Westtown, Pa. He was 79 years old. He died of liver cancer, his family said.  Mr. Dickey began his restoration work in the late 1960's, after he and a partner
John Gerard Steinle, a lawyer, hospital administrator and health-care consultant, died on Sunday at Holy Name Hospital in Teaneck, N.J. He was 73 years old and lived in Fort Lee. John Gerard Steinle, a lawyer, hospital administrator and health-care consultant, died on Sunday a
Thomas L. Raleigh Jr., a former co-chairman of operations and deputy senior partner of Price Waterhouse-U.S., died Sunday at the New England Medical Center in Boston. He was 63 years old. Thomas L. Raleigh Jr., a former co-chairman of operations and deputy senior partner of Pr
Carl M. Marcy, who served as chief of staff of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee for almost 20 years, died Wednesday at Anne Arundel General Hospital in Annapolis, Md. He was 77 years old and lived in Annapolis. Carl M. Marcy, who served as chief of staff of the Senate Fo
George Houston Bass, a professor of theater arts and African-American studies at Brown University and the literary executor and trustee of the Langston Hughes estate, died on Tuesday at Miriam Hospital in Providence, R.I. He was 52 years old and lived in Cranston, R.I. He died after a
Hermes Pan, the Academy Award-winning choreographer who, with Fred Astaire, created some of the most elegant, spirited and amusing dances in film history, died Wednesday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 79 years old. Hermes Pan, the Academy Award-winning choreograph
J. F. Gates Clarke, an entomologist and research associate at the Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of Natural History, died Monday at his home in Hyattsville, Md. He was 85 years old. J. F. Gates Clarke, an entomologist and research associate at the Smithsonian Instit
Michael J. Kelly, a former vice president of the Newspaper Advertising Bureau, died on Wednesday at his home in Three Lakes, Wis. He was 73 years old and also lived in Boca Raton, Fla. Michael J. Kelly, a former vice president of the Newspaper Advertising Bureau, died on Wedne
Peter Oldenburg, a book and graphic designer long associated with the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died on Wednesday at his home in Ossining, N.Y. He was 74 years old. He died of heart failure, his family said. Since 1959, Mr. Oldenburg designed the museum's annual engagement calendar.
Robert Rodale, an exponent of organic farming and the head of a publishing empire whose magazines dealt with subjects like garening, health and fitness, died yesterday in an automobile accident in Moscow. He was 60 years old and lived in Emmaus, Pa. Robert Rodale, an exponent 
Cass Sheffield Hough, former president of the Daisy Manufacturing Company, the maker of air rifles, died Monday at his home in Naples, Fla. He was 85 years old. Cass Sheffield Hough, former president of the Daisy Manufacturing Company, the maker of air rifles, died Monday at h
Werner Janssen, the first American-born conductor to lead the New York Philharmonic and later an active film composer and champion of contemporary music on the West Coast, died on Wednesday at the Stony Brook (L.I.) University Hospital. He was 91 years old. Werner Janssen, the
Alfonso Cata, artistic director of the Ballet du Nord in Roubaix, France, died on Sept. 15 at the Hospital of Tourcoing, near Roubaix. He was 53 years old. Alfonso Cata, artistic director of the Ballet du Nord in Roubaix, France, died on Sept. 15 at the Hospital of Tourcoing, 
Arthur L. Amundsen, former director of operations for the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, died on Thursday at a friend's home, where he was staying as part of the Good Samaritan Hospice Program in Bay Shore, L.I. He was 85 years old and lived in Valley Strea
Donald F. Cawley, who was called an ''innovator'' and ''an enormously able professional'' when he was appointed as the 30th Commissioner of the New York City Police Department in 1973, died yesterday at his home in Massapequa, L.I. Donald F. Cawley, who was called an ''innovat
George D. Bjurman, a retired investment portfolio manager, died Monday at the Medical Center of the University of California at Los Angeles. He was 84 years old and lived in Los Angeles. George D. Bjurman, a retired investment portfolio manager, died Monday at the Medical Cent
Harry Palevsky, one of the early researchers in nuclear physics who helped to develop the atomic bomb, died Monday at Community Memorial Hospital in Ventura, Calif. He was 71 years old and lived in Ojai, Calif. Harry Palevsky, one of the early researchers in nuclear physics wh
Henry Lax, an internist and a cardiologist, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 95 years old and died of a stroke, his son Peter said. Henry Lax, an internist and a cardiologist, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 95 years old and died of a stroke, his
Irving N. Hinnau, a retired executive of the International Business Machines Corporation, died on Tuesday at his home in Stamford, Conn. He was 66 years old. His family said he died of melanoma. Mr. Hinnau graduated from the University of Cincinnati and held a master's degree in busin
John E. (Jackie) Moran, who was a child actor in films in the 1930's, died on Thursday. He was 67 years old. John E. (Jackie) Moran, who was a child actor in films in the 1930's, died on Thursday. He was 67 years old. Mr. Moran died of cancer at Franklin Medical Center
Dr. Joseph Schwartzman, professor emeritus of pediatrics at New York Medical College, died on Wednesday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 84 years old. Dr. Joseph Schwartzman, professor emeritus of pediatrics at New York Medical College, died on Wednesday at his home in Brooklyn
Milton Hutner, a New York lawyer who specialized in matrimonial cases before he retired 15 years ago, died on Saturday in the Palm Gardens nursing home in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 83 years old and lived in Palm Beach. Milton Hutner, a New York lawyer who specialized in mat
Richard E. Goodman, an advertising executive, died on Tuesday at Overlook Hospital in Summit, N.J. He was 62 years old and lived in Chatham Township, N.J. Richard E. Goodman, an advertising executive, died on Tuesday at Overlook Hospital in Summit, N.J. He was 62 years old and
Robert Beckett Spence, a professor emeritus of psychology at Teachers College at Columbia University, died on Wednesday at his home in a retirement community in Newtown, Pa. He was 89 years old. Robert Beckett Spence, a professor emeritus of psychology at Teachers College at C
Stephen F. Kolzak, former senior vice president of casting and talent at Columbia Pictures Television, died on Wednesday at Sherman Oaks (Calif.) Community Hospital. He was 37 years old and lived in Los Angeles. His family said he had died of AIDS. Mr. Kolzak, who was born in Hartford
Thomas McGrath, a poet who was widely published in the last four decades, died on Thursday at the Abbott-Northwestern Hospital in Minneapolis. He was 74 years old and lived in Minneapolis. Thomas McGrath, a poet who was widely published in the last four decades, died on Thursd
Wilfred Wilson, a lawyer and retired senior vice president of a national teachers' pension fund, died on Aug. 26 at Sydney City Hospital in Sydney, Nova Scotia. He was 68 years old and lived in Port Washington, L.I. Wilfred Wilson, a lawyer and retired senior vice president of
Willliam G. Andrews, a former vice president of Grand Union Food Stores, died on Saturday at his home in Winter Haven, Fla., where he had lived since he retired in 1971. He was 83 years old. Willliam G. Andrews, a former vice president of Grand Union Food Stores, died on Satur
Gen. Xu Xiangqian, a scion of a landowner's family who joined the Communist underground in the 1920's and came to be one of China's most venerable military leaders, died this morning. He was 88 years old. Gen. Xu Xiangqian, a scion of a landowner's family who joined the Commun
Hermes Pan, the Academy Award-winning choreographer who, with Fred Astaire, created some of the most elegant, spirited and amusing dances in film history, died on Wednesday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 79 years old. Hermes Pan, the Academy Award-winning choreogr
Marcel F. Grilli, an American music critic and prominent figure in cultural exchanges between Japan and the United States, died in Tokyo on Thursday. He was 83 years old. Marcel F. Grilli, an American music critic and prominent figure in cultural exchanges between Japan and th
Kendall W. Goodwyn, retired managing editor of Popular Science magazine, died on Sept. 15 at the Rosary Hill Nursing Home in Hawthorne, N.Y. He was 79 years old and lived in North Tarrytown, N.Y. Kendall W. Goodwyn, retired managing editor of Popular Science magazine, died on 
Lord Swann, the governor and chairman of the British Broadcasting Corporation from 1973 to 1980, died on Saturday, the BBC said. He was 70 years old. Lord Swann, the governor and chairman of the British Broadcasting Corporation from 1973 to 1980, died on Saturday, the BBC said
Louis Calta, a former reporter in the drama department of The New York Times, died yesterday at Kingsbrook Jewish Medical Center in Brooklyn. He was 77 years old. Louis Calta, a former reporter in the drama department of The New York Times, died yesterday at Kingsbrook Jewish 
Edward E. Booher, the former chairman and president of the McGraw-Hill Book Company, died yesterday at the Princeton Medical Center in Princeton, N.J. He was 79 years old and lived in Princeton. Edward E. Booher, the former chairman and president of the McGraw-Hill Book Compan
James Lewis Howe Jr., an educator and a former chairman of the chemistry department at Hangchow Christian College in China, died Sunday at Rockingham Memorial Hospital in Harrisonburg, Va. He was 93 years old and lived in Harrisonburg. James Lewis Howe Jr., an educator and a f
Joseph Leavitt, executive vice president and general manager of the Philharmonic Orchestra of Florida, died Friday at a nursing home in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 74 years old and lived in Boca Raton. Joseph Leavitt, executive vice president and general manager of the Philharmoni
Lewis B. Maytag, an heir to the home appliance fortune who shunned the family business for a career in flying and became chief executive of National Airlines for 18 years, died on Sunday at Penrose Hospital in Colorado Springs. He was 64 years old. Lewis B. Maytag, an heir to 
Melvin Cunniff, a stockbroker who began his career more than 60 years ago as a page on Wall Street, died on Tuesday at Toms River Community Hospital in New Jersey. He was 79 years old and lived in Brielle, N.J. Melvin Cunniff, a stockbroker who began his career more than 60 ye
Prescott D. Schutz, an art dealer who specialized in 19th- and 20th-century American art, died yesterday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 42 years old and lived in Manhattan. His family said he died of complications from AIDS. Mr. Schutz and his father, Herbert D. Schut
Robert Ladd Thorndike, Ralph Narch Hoe Professor Emeritus of Education at Teachers College of Columbia University, died on Friday at St. Peter Hospital in Olympia, Wash. He was 79 years old and moved to Lacey, Wash., in 1987. Robert Ladd Thorndike, Ralph Narch Hoe Professor Em
Bishop Robert Fisher Gibson Jr., former head of the Episcopal Diocese of Virginia, died Friday at Stuart Circle Hospital in Richmond. He was 83 years old. Bishop Robert Fisher Gibson Jr., former head of the Episcopal Diocese of Virginia, died Friday at Stuart Circle Hospital i
Thomas R. Nunan Jr., an account executive with the CBS Network sales division, died on Saturday at Greenwich Hospital in Connecticut. He was 67 years old and lived in Riverside, Conn. He died of lung cancer, his family said. Thomas R. Nunan Jr., an account executive with the C
Andrew S. Witwer, an author and playwright, died Saturday at New York University Hospital. He was 70 years old and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Witwer died of bone cancer, said a friend, K. C. Victor. Mr. Witwer was the translator for the eight-hour, Academy Award-winning Soviet film of ''
Daniel W. Hofgren, a former aide to President Richard M. Nixon who contradicted statements by former Attorney General John N. Mitchell at Mr. Mitchell's conspiracy trial in 1974, died Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 54 years old and died of cancer, said his former wife, Joan T
David H. McConnell 3d, an investment banker, died on Sunday at the Manhattan home of his mother, the Baroness Hubert von Pantz. He was 64 years old and lived in Manhattan. David H. McConnell 3d, an investment banker, died on Sunday at the Manhattan home of his mother, the Baro
Denis J. Quane, a professor of chemistry at East Texas State University for 25 years, died Friday at R. H. Dedman Hospital in Dallas. He was 54 years old and lived in Commerce, Tex. Denis J. Quane, a professor of chemistry at East Texas State University for 25 years, died Frid
Dr. Elmer Louis Grimes, a surgeon and former chairman of the Medical Inter-Insurance Exchange of New Jersey, died last Thursday at Our Lady of Lourdes Medical Center in Camden, N.J. He was 76 years old and lived in Haddonfield, N.J. He died of a brain tumor, his family said. D
Frank Harris Johnson, a retired professor of biology at Princeton University, died on Saturday at Princeton Medical Center in New Jersey. He was 82 years old and lived in Princeton. Frank Harris Johnson, a retired professor of biology at Princeton University, died on Saturday 
John A. Danaher, a former United States Senator from Connecticut and a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia for 15 years, died on Saturday at a convalescent home in West Hartford, Conn. He was 91 years old and lived in West Hartford. John A.
The Rev. Laszlo Ladany, a Hungarian-born Jesuit who ran a journal on China from a student hostel at the University of Hong Kong, died on Sunday of lung cancer. He was 76 years old. The Rev. Laszlo Ladany, a Hungarian-born Jesuit who ran a journal on China from a student hostel
Murl E. Thrush, a retired New York City physical education teacher who helped establish wrestling programs in the city's schools, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Daytona Beach, Fla. He was 83 years old and died in his sleep, his daughter-in-law, Lenore Thrush, said. Murl E
Dr. Ralph W. Cordier, retired dean of academic affairs at Indiana University of Pennsylvania in Indiana, Pa., died Saturday at Indiana Hospital. He was 88 years old and lived in Indiana. Dr. Ralph W. Cordier, retired dean of academic affairs at Indiana University of Pennsylvan
Robert M. Egan, a former senior vice president and management supervisor at Saatchi & Saatchi Advertising, died on Monday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 55 years old and lived in Garden City, L.I. Robert M. Egan, a former senior vice president and manage
Ruben de Saavedra, an interior decorator with an international reputation, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 57 years old and lived in Manhattan. Ruben de Saavedra, an interior decorator with an international reputation, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai 
Alberto Moravia, whose many novels explored alienation and other social traumas while focusing almost obsessively on human sexuality, died today at his apartment overlooking the Tiber River here. He was 82 years old. Alberto Moravia, whose many novels explored alienation and o
Dr. C. Douglas Hoyt, a dentist who was the first medical officer to go ashore in the invasion of Guadalcanal in World War II, died on Friday at Monmouth Medical Center in Long Branch, N.J. He was 74 years old and lived in Fair Haven, N.J. Dr. C. Douglas Hoyt, a dentist who was
Harold L. Trigg, one of the first doctors to use methadone in treating heroin addiction, died on Monday at the Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 66 years old and lived in Manhattan. Harold L. Trigg, one of the first doctors to use methadone in treating heroin add
Harold King, a Reuters reporter whose letters from Stalin helped to shape the West's perception of the Soviet Union, died on Monday at a private clinic in Nogent-sur-Marne, a suburb of Paris. He was 91 years old and lived in Paris. Harold King, a Reuters reporter whose letters
Dr. John J. Dorsey, a plastic surgeon who practiced in Yonkers for many years, died on Tuesday at the Manhattanville Nursing Center in the Bronx. He was 78 years old and lived in Yonkers. He died of a stroke, his family said. Dr. Dorsey served as a plastic surgeon in the Army in World
Thomas C. Fichter, senior vice president and chief financial officer of the American Newspaper Publishers Association, died yesterday at Fair Oaks Hospital in Fairfax, Va. He was 51 years old and lived in Oakton, Va. Thomas C. Fichter, senior vice president and chief financial
Werner Kuhn, a lawyer who served with the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation and helped found the California Association of AIDS Agencies, died on Sunday at the U.C.L.A. Medical Center Hospital in Los Angeles. He was 47 years old and lived in Los Angeles. 
Archibald A. Talmage, vice president of the Electric Bond and Share Company, a New York holding company that is now Ebasco Services Inc., died on Tuesday at Sharon (Conn.) Hospital. He was 86 years old and lived in West Cornwall, Conn. Archibald A. Talmage, vice president of t
Arthur G. Poor Jr., a textile industry executive, died on Friday at his home in Upper Montclair, N.J. He was 65 years old and died of lung cancer, his son, Arthur 3d, said. Arthur G. Poor Jr., a textile industry executive, died on Friday at his home in Upper Montclair, N.J. He
Ben Gradus, a film producer who worked closely with Harry S. Truman to produce 26 half-hour programs recalling major events in the President's life, died Tuesday at Greater Northern Weschester Hospital in Mt. Kisco, N.Y. He was 72 years old and lived in Pound Ridge, N.Y. Ben G
Charles R. Kaufman, a founder of the Chicago law firm Vedder, Price, Kaufman & Kramholz, died Wednesday at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. He was 81 years old and lived in Winnetka, Ill. Charles R. Kaufman, a founder of the Chicago law firm Vedder, Price, Kaufman & 
Frank P. Sheridan, an antiques and imported furniture buyer for Lord & Taylor in Manhattan for more than 30 years, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 88 years old. Frank P. Sheridan, an antiques and imported furniture buyer for Lord & Taylor in Manhattan for mo
Harold A. Price, a judge of the New Jersey Superior Court from 1956 to 1963, died on Wednesday at the Kingswood Manor nursing home in Kansas City, Mo., where he had lived for the last two years. He was 97 years old and had previously lived in Morristown, N.J. Harold A. Price, 
Howard M. Grossman, a lawyer and Democratic leader in Westchester County, died on Tuesday at White Plains Hospital. He was 68 years old and lived in Hartsdale, N.Y. Howard M. Grossman, a lawyer and Democratic leader in Westchester County, died on Tuesday at White Plains Hospit
Paul Grotz, an architect and former art director and managing editor of the magazine Architectural Forum, died on Sept. 15 at Cape Cod Hospital in Hyannis, Mass. He was 88 years old and lived in Wellfleet, Mass. He died of a stroke, his son, Stefan, said. Mr. Grotz was educated in Stu
Peter J. Ottley, a former elevator operator who became president of Local 144 of the Hotels, Hospitals, Nursing Home and Allied Services Union for 37 years, representing tens of thousands of workers, died on Wednesday at La Guardia Hospital in Queens. He was 82 years old and lived in 
Seymour H. Knox, a banker, internationally known art patron and first chairman of the New York State Council on the Arts, died yesterday at his home in Buffalo. He was 92 years old. Seymour H. Knox, a banker, internationally known art patron and first chairman of the New York 
Thomas B. Greenslade, a science teacher in the New York City public schools for more than 30 years, died on Tuesday at Riverside Hospital in Columbus, Ohio. He was 80 years old and lived in Gambier, Oh. Thomas B. Greenslade, a science teacher in the New York City public school
Alvin Broido, a teacher and principal in the New York City public school system for about 45 years, died on Thursday at Scripps Memorial Hospital in Encinitas, Calif. He was 85 years old and had lived in Rancho La Costa, Calif., since retiring in 1970. Alvin Broido, a teacher 
Carl F. Ewig, a retired steamship company executive, died on Saturday at Phelps Memorial Hospital in North Tarrytown, N.Y. He was 85 years old and lived in Irvington-on-Hudson, N.Y. Carl F. Ewig, a retired steamship company executive, died on Saturday at Phelps Memorial Hospit
George R. Ince Jr., a first vice president of Bankers Trust Company in Manhattan for more than 40 years, died on Thursday at Winthrop University Hospital in Mineola, L.I. He was 81 years old and lived in Garden City, L.I. George R. Ince Jr., a first vice president of Bankers T
John B. Goodman, retired executive vice president for the Downtown Lower Manhattan Association, a civic group, died on Tuesday at his home in Bellingham, Wash. He was 78 years old and had lived in Darien, Conn., for many years before moving to Bellingham. John B. Goodman, reti
John J. Ducas, a communications consultant with the Chase Manhattan Bank who in the 1950's and 60's was a principal adviser in the public relations program for the nation's first intercontinental ballistic missiles, died Sunday at his home in Manhattan. Mr. Ducas, 70 years old, died o
Lawrence F. O'Brien Jr., the Democratic Party strategist who organized the successful senatorial and Presidential campaigns of John F. Kennedy, died yesterday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 73 years old. His family said he died from complications of c
Rome bade a dry-eyed farewell today to its celebrated native son Alberto Moravia, who remained faithful to his city in life, even if his writings did not always treat it like a lady. Rome bade a dry-eyed farewell today to its celebrated native son Alberto Moravia, who remained
Dr. Thomas A. Flinn, a professor of political science at Cleveland State University for 20 years, died Wednesday at Lakeside Hospital of University Hospitals in Cleveland. He was 65 years old and lived in Cleveland. Dr. Thomas A. Flinn, a professor of political science at Clev
George Walter Harrington, a former New York State assemblyman and New York City Criminal Court judge, died on Thursday at New Hanover Memorial Hospital in Wilmington, N.C. He was 75 years old. George Walter Harrington, a former New York State assemblyman and New York City Crim
George L. Hubbell Jr., a retired partner in the New York law firm of Cullen & Dykman, died on Thursday at his home in Garden City, L.I., at the age of 96. He died of pneumonia, a spokesman for the law firm said. George L. Hubbell Jr., a retired partner in the New York law firm
John Grady, the director of music for St. Patrick's Cathedral and an organist there and at the Metropolitan Opera, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 56 years old. John Grady, the director of music for St. Patrick's Cathedral and an organist there and at the Met
Thomas P. Robinson, a television executive who was involved in the industry since its early days, died on Friday at George Washington University Hospital in Washington. He was 85 years old and lived in retirement in Tequesta, Fla. Thomas P. Robinson, a television executive who
