 Jaime Benítez Rexach, a former chancellor and president of the University of Puerto Rico who from 1972 to 1976 was the island's nonvoting representative in Congress, died on Wednesday in a hospital in San Juan. He was 92. Under Mr. Benítez, who became chancellor in 1942, the Unive
 William J. Curtis, who held high posts at the Horn & Hardart Baking Company of Philadelphia and the Horn & Hardart Company in New York, died on May 16 in Long Beach, N.Y. He was 92 and lived in Point Lookout, N.Y. In 1959, Mr. Curtis was made executive vice president of the baking c
 Hank Ketcham, who fathered the cartoon character Dennis the Menace, the freckle-face scamp in droopy overalls whose mischievous childhood has endured for 50 years and amused a worldwide audience, died yesterday at his home in Carmel, Calif. He was 81. In March a half-century of the 
 Li Kwoh-ting, a driving force behind Taiwan's transformation into an economic power, died on Thursday. He was 91. Mr. Li, better known in Taiwan as K. T. Li, was a senior presidential adviser and former minister of economics and minister of finance. He was hospitalized in Ta
 King Birendra Bir Bikram Shah Dev, who was shot to death on Friday in a massacre of Nepal's royal family, was a proud but isolated monarch whose reign began in absolutism and ended in uneasy partnership with democracy. But it was a uniquely Nepalese  democracy, with a fractious poli
 David X. Young, a painter whose rodent-infested, illegally rented loft became a citadel of jazz improvisation and experimentation in the 1950's and 60's, died on May 22 in Manhattan. He was 71. The cause was a heart attack, said his daughter, Eliza Alys Young. The loft, in a
 Freddie Trenkler, a comic ice skater known for his ingenious and well-timed stumbles and falls, died on May 21 in Canoga Park, Calif. He was 88, according to the IceStage Archive of Minneapolis. The tiny and impish skater, who favored ragged clothes and a beat-up hat as his costume,
 Robert L. Benney, a prolific painter and illustrator who belonged to the vanishing breed of American combat artists, died on May 14 in Boston. He was 97 and had recently moved to Boston from Manhattan. Mr. Benney was widely shown, starting with an exhibition of theater drawings at t
 Anthony Quinn, whose six-decade acting career established the enduring image of a joyful primitive with a fierce passion for life, died yesterday at a Boston hospital. He was 86 and lived in Bristol, R.I., near Providence. The cause was respiratory failure, said a hospital spokeswom
 Gene Woodling, whose smooth batting swing and superb play in left field helped the Yankees win five consecutive World Series championships, died Saturday at a nursing home in Wadsworth, Ohio. He was 78. Woodling had been in failing health since suffering a stroke in 1997, his wife, 
 Tennyson Schad, a First Amendment lawyer whose brainchild, Light Gallery, was the bold commercial showcase for contemporary photographers in the 1970's and the training ground for an unusually large number of today's gallery directors, died on May 26 in Manhattan. He was 70 and lived in Man
 Wells C. Klein, a longtime advocate for the rights of immigrants and refugees wanting to settle in the United States, died April 5 at his home in Stowe, Vt. He was 74. Mr. Klein had spent most of his life reorganizing and reinvigorating  groups set up to help refugees and immigrants
 Dr. Abe Silverstein, a mechanical engineer who oversaw parts of  America's fledgling space program of the 1950's and 1960's, died on Friday at his home in Fairview Park, Ohio. He was 92. He went to work for the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics in 1929 and held leading pos
 James M. Fleetwood Jr., the chairman and chief executive of LifePoint Hospitals, died on Saturday in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., where he was on vacation. He was 54 and lived in Nashville. The cause was apparently a heart attack, the company said in a statement. LifePoint was spu
 Joey Maxim, a light-heavyweight champion who was the only boxer to keep Sugar Ray Robinson from finishing a fight, died last Saturday at a hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 79. The cause was complications of a stroke he had four months ago. He had been hospitalized in Clevela
 Sir Harold Ridley, an ophthalmologist and developer of the operation to replace cataract-scarred lenses, died on May 25 in Salisbury, England, after a cerebral hemorrhage. He was 94. His innovation, in 1949, was met with great opposition from the British medical establishment, but s
 John Hartford, a versatile musician known for mastering banjo, playing violin, performing comedy on television and writing one of country music's most recorded songs, ''Gentle on My Mind,'' died on Monday at the Centennial Medical Center in Nashville. He was 63. The cause was cancer
 Michael Sonnabend, the husband of the art dealer Ileana Sonnabend and a familiar, approachable presence on the downtown art scene, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 101. From the 1970's to the mid-90's, the diminutive Mr. Sonnabend could often be found chatting with vi
 Rockets Redglare, a comedian, actor and longtime fixture on the Lower East Side of Manhattan who played characters not unlike himself in many movies, died on May 28 in Manhattan. He was 52. The cause was complications of kidney failure, liver failure, cirrhosis and hepatitis C, said
 Francis Bebey, a composer, writer and performer who was an authority on African traditional music, died on May 28 in Paris. He was 72. Mr. Bebey was the author of ''African Music: A People's Art'' (1975), a survey of Africa's varied musical heritage as well as a discography and a co
 Howard M. Packard, former president of S. C. Johnson & Son Inc. of Racine, Wis., the producer of Johnson's Wax and other home products, died on Sunday at a retirement community in Sister Bay, Wis. He was 90. He became the company's treasurer in 1946 and was its president from 1958 t
 Joseph P. McMurray, an expert on national and New York housing policy who was chairman of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board and president of three colleges, died on May 21 at Long Beach Medical Center on Long Island. He was 89. From 1959 to 1961 he was president of Queensborough Comm
 Paul E. Dietrich, an architect and founding member of the firm Cambridge Seven Associates in Cambridge, Mass., died on Saturday at a  Boston hospital. He was 75. The cause was a heart attack, said his daughter, Andrea Dietrich. Mr. Dietrich was born in Hammond, Ind., and att
 Tsen-cha Tsao, an engineer and educator who helped recreate one of China's leading institutions of higher learning on Taiwan, died on May 23 at home on the Upper East Side. He was 99. Mr. Tsao, known as T.C., retired in 1971 as a senior research engineer involved in defense-related 
 Brig. Gen. Denis Whitaker, one of Canada's most highly decorated army officers of World War II and a military historian and sportsman, died May 30 in Oakville, Ontario. He was 86. Serving with the Royal Hamilton Light Infantry -- from the Dieppe raid through the Normandy campaign an
 Henry Ludwig Michel, a globe-trotting civil engineer with a 50-year career that made him a leader in the construction industry, died on May 23 at his home on the East Side of Manhattan. He was 76. The apparent cause was a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Michel was chairma
 Víctor Paz Estenssoro, who was president of Bolivia four times in a career that he began as a moderate leftist and ended as a conservative, and who went into exile three times, died on Thursday. He was 93. News service reports said Mr. Paz Estenssoro died where he was born, in Tari
 Walter E. Rogers, a Texas Democrat who served eight terms in the House of Representatives, died on May 31 at a hospital in Naples, Fla. He was 92. Mr. Rogers, who investigated the television quiz show scandals of the 1950's and the Northeast blackout of 1964, was also a witness to s
 Edward Wright, whose youthful curiosity about three oak planks poking out of the English beach where he and his brother searched for dinosaur bones led to the discovery of the oldest seaworthy boats found in northern Europe, died on May 18 in a hospital in Gloucester. He was 82. Mr.
 John McKay, who coached the University of Southern California football team to four unofficial national championships, then coached for nine seasons with the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, died yesterday at a hospital in Tampa, Fla. He was 77. The cause was kidney failure arising from diabet
 Stephan Weiss, a sculptor and painter who with his wife, Donna Karan, founded one of America's leading fashion houses, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 62 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was lung cancer, a spokeswoman for the Donna Karan company said. A tall, slim man w
 Thomas F. Irvine Jr., the founding dean of the College of Engineering and Applied Sciences at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, died on June 2 at his home in St. James, N.Y. He was 78. The cause of death was listed as cardiopulmonary arrest, his wife said. Aft
 Harry Zohn, an educator, writer and translator of important works of German literature, died on May 3 at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. He was 77 and most recently lived in Newton, Mass. The cause was leukemia, his family said. Dr. Zohn taught at Brandeis University
 J. C. Furnas, a writer and social historian, died on June 3 at his home in Stanton, N.J. He was 95. Mr. Furnas was a longtime contributor to The American Scholar and wrote prolifically for newspapers, including The New York Times, and magazines like The Saturday Evening Post, Collie
 Edwin Shapiro, a former president of the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society, an American Jewish refugee agency, and a leader in other Jewish organizations, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 80. Mr. Shapiro died of cancer, his family said. As president of the society 
 Col. Todd Sweeney, who commanded a platoon of glider-borne British infantrymen in a storied raid that captured two vital bridges in the first moments of D-Day, died June 4, The Times of London reported. He was 82. Just past midnight on June 6, 1944, six gliders carrying 181 troops o
 Viktor Hamburger, an experimental embryologist who mapped much of the delicate pas de deux executed by the developing nervous system and the tissue it controls, died on Tuesday in St. Louis. He was 100 years old and lived in nearby University City. Dr. Hamburger, who spent much of h
 Jerry Sterner, a businessman turned playwright who wrote the Off Broadway hit ''Other People's Money,'' died on Monday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 62. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Jean. After attending City College of New York, Mr. Sterner sold tokens for
 Paul R. Carey, a top aide to President Bill Clinton and later a Securities and Exchange commissioner who campaigned for the rights of individual investors, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 38 and lived in Washington. The cause was endocri
 Amos Perlmutter, a Washington-based political scientist, author and commentator on Middle Eastern affairs, died Tuesday at a hospital in Washington. He was 69. The cause was cancer, his family said. He was the author of 15 books and innumerable articles and essays about the 
 David Rolland Spedding, who rose to head the Secret Intelligence Service, or M.I.6 -- a position immortalized by the author Ian Fleming as the espionage supremo known only as M -- died on Wednesday. He was 58. He died of lung cancer, the agency announced. Sir David's career 
 Dennis Puleston, a naturalist, boat designer and yachtsman who, as founding chairman of the Environmental Defense Fund, played a leading role in getting the insecticide DDT banned in the United States and many other countries, died June 8 at his home in Brookhaven, N.Y. He was 95. M
 Makanda K. McIntyre, a jazz saxophonist, flutist and player of reed instruments who began recording in the early 1960's before beginning a 40-year career as a beloved jazz educator, died on Wednesday at his Harlem apartment. He was 69. He collapsed after exercising, said his wife, J
 Dr. Bernard Louis Strehler, a biochemist and gerontologist who investigated and described the physical causes of aging, died on May 13 at a nursing home in Agoura, Calif. He was 76. The cause was a stroke, said the University of Southern California, where Dr. Strehler taught from 19
 Russell M. Saunders, whose daring stunts in more than 100 movies overshadowed even his acrobatic antics on Santa Monica's fabled Muscle Beach, died on May 29 at a nursing home in West Los Angeles. He was 82. Doubling for actors like Alan Ladd, Gene Kelly, Red Buttons and Jack Benny,
 Aaron Green, an architect in the San Francisco Bay Area and an associate of Frank Lloyd Wright in the 1940's and 50's, died on June 5 in San Francisco. He was 84. Mr. Green was awarded the first Gold Medal of the Frank Lloyd Wright Foundation this month in recognition of a half-cent
 George Abrams, an artist and type designer whose distinctive logotypes spelled out household names like B. Altman and Godiva Chocolates, died on June 7 in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 81 and lived in Great Neck Estates, N.Y. Mr. Abrams and his company, Alphabets Inc., worked with many of 
 Joe Darion, the lyricist for ''Man of La Mancha,'' whose inspirational ballad, ''The Impossible Dream,'' became one of the most beloved pop anthems of the 1960's, died on Saturday in Lebanon, N.H. He was 90. ''Man of La Mancha,'' which opened in New York in November 1965 and ran for
 Dr. Robert M. Heyssel, a former president of the Johns Hopkins Hospital who oversaw a major expansion there and worked to improve the delivery of health services, especially to the poor, died on Wednesday in Seaford, Del., where he lived. He was 72. The cause was lung cancer, Elaine
 Sam Jethroe, a star center fielder of the Negro leagues who was named rookie of the year while with the 1950 Boston Braves at age 32 and is the oldest player ever to receive the award, died last Saturday at a hospital in Erie, Pa. He was 83. The cause was a heart attack, his family 
 David Sylvester, for many years an influential critic, exhibition organizer and shaper of opinion in the international modern-art field, died on Monday in London. He was 76 and lived in London. The cause was colon cancer, said a spokeswoman for the Tate Gallery. Mr. Sylveste
 Dr. Donald J. Cram, who shared the 1987 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for synthesizing molecules that mimicked some of the chemical reactions of life, died on Sunday at his home in Palm Desert, Calif. He was 82. The cause was cancer, said the University of California at Los Angeles, wher
 Harold A. Jerry Jr., a past New York State public service commissioner who played a major role in a state plan to save the Adirondacks from overdevelopment, died on June 9 at his home in Albany. He was 81 and also lived in Speculator, N.Y. The cause was cancer, his family said.     
 Neil Vander Dussen, a former president of the Sony Corporation of America, died on June 9 at St. Joseph's Hospital in Savannah, Ga. Mr. Vander Dussen, a resident of Bluffton, S.C., was 69. The cause was a brain aneurysm, his wife, Gerie, said. After a 24-year career with RCA
 Barton Mumaw, a member of Ted Shawn's pioneering all-male dance company of the 1930's and a performer in many modern-dance and musical theater productions, died on Monday in Clearwater, Fla., his home for many years. He was 88. Mr. Mumaw was long associated with Jacob's Pillow, the 
 Willie Turnesa, the youngest of the famous golfing Turnesa brothers and the last surviving brother, died Saturday at Phelps Memorial Hospital Center in Sleepy Hollow, N.Y. He was 87. The cause was pneumonia, said Pauline Sparling, one of his daughters. Three of the seven Tur
 Carroll O'Connor, an actor trained in Shakespearean drama who achieved his greatest triumph playing Archie Bunker, television's malapropian, working-class bigot from Queens, died on Thursday at a hospital in Culver City, Calif. He was 76 and lived in Malibu, Calif. The cause was a h
 Dr. Rodolphe Lucien Coigney, a French resistance hero who near the end of World War II helped persuade Heinrich Himmler, the SS chief, to release French women held in the Ravensbrück concentration camp, died on June 6 in New York. He was 89. Dr. Coigney was a medical adviser to Gen
 John Lee Hooker, the bluesman whose stark, one-chord boogies were some of the feistiest and most desolate songs of the 20th century, died yesterday in his sleep at his home in Los Altos, Calif., said his agent, Mike Kappus. He was 83. Mr. Hooker's music stayed close to its Mississip
 Paolo Emilio Taviani, a wartime resistance fighter and a founding father of the Italian Republic and the Christian Democratic Party that dominated it in the postwar era, died on Monday in Rome. He was 88. He suffered a stroke, it was announced in the upper chamber of Parliament, whe
 James Parker, a curator at the Metropolitan Museum of Art for nearly 50 years who was perhaps best known for his creation of the  Wrightsman rooms of 18th-century French furniture, died on Wednesday  at his home in Manhattan. He was 77. The cause was cancer, said James Draper, a cur
 Lincoln Constance, a world-renowned botanist who helped explain the cell structure and chromosomes of some agricultural mainstays, died on June 11 at a hospital in Berkeley, Calif. He was 92. Dr. Constance, botany professor at the University of California at Berkeley, was a leading 
 Sripati Chandrasekhar, an Indian demographer and government minister who fought a tireless and so far losing battle to reduce his country's soaring population, died on June 14 in San Diego, Calif. He was 83. He died after two strokes, his wife, Ann Downes Chandrasekhar, said.       
 David Joseph Goldberg, a lawyer who was chairman of the New Jersey Turnpike Authority as well as the state's first commissioner of transportation, died on Monday at his home in Lawrenceville, N.J. He was 70. The cause was leukemia, his family said. Mr. Goldberg practiced law
 Dr. James H. Sammons, a former top executive of the American Medical Association who turned the organization around during a financial crisis in the 1980's, died on June 17 in Chicago, where he lived. He was 74. The causes were cancer and a heart ailment, an A.M.A. spokeswoman said.
 Dr. J. Julian Chisolm Jr., whose crusade against lead poisoning led to innovative ways to treat the condition, died on Wednesday in a retirement community in Baltimore. He was 79. He had congestive heart failure, his family said. Dr. Chisolm is credited with saving the lives
 John Cannon, president of the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences, died on Friday in Cologne, Germany. He was 74. The cause was apparently a heart attack, reported Variety, the show business journal. Mr. Cannon, who was president of the academy for 25 years, sup
 Joseph Picone, a tailor who specialized in men's trousers until a woman's skirt crossed the threshold of his tiny shop, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 83. In 1949, Mr. Picone was working out of a storefront on Fifth Avenue near 46th Street when a client sent his s
 John Herbert, the Canadian playwright whose experiences in a reformatory inspired his influential play about prison homosexuality, ''Fortune and Men's Eyes,'' died on Friday at his home in Toronto. He was 75. He had been ill for a month after undergoing a biopsy to determine if he h
 Rabbi Bernard Mandelbaum, president from 1966 to 1971 of the Jewish Theological Seminary, the academic and spiritual center of Conservative Judaism, died June 19 at a nursing home in Plantation, Fla. He was 79 and lived in Mount Vernon, N.Y., and Tamarac, Fla. The cause was a heart 
 Robinson McIlvaine, a career diplomat who was at the center of a tense international incident while he was the American ambassador to Guinea, in West Africa, died on Sunday at his home in Washington, D.C. He was 87. Mr. McIlvaine arrived in Guinea's capital, Conakry, in October 1966
 William J. Nisselson, the longtime manager of a post-production film studio that became a haven for generations of famous and not yet famous New York directors, died on June 19 at his office in Manhattan. He was 56 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was heart failure, his colleagues 
 Clarkson Nott Potter, a publisher, writer and literary agent who founded an imprint in his own name, died Sunday at his home in Jamestown, R.I. He was 73. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Helga Maass Potter. Mr. Potter was the founder and retired editor in chief 
 John Finley Yardley, a retired engineer who played a central role in the fledgling days of space flight and set the stage for the space shuttle program, died on Tuesday at his home in suburban St. Louis. He was 76. The cause was complications of cancer. Mr. Yardley was close
 Robert M. McKinney, the editor and publisher of The Santa Fe New Mexican, who fought an 11-year battle to reclaim the newspaper from the Gannett Company, died on Sunday in New York, where he maintained a residence. He was 90. Mr. McKinney, who bought The New Mexican in 1949 for $560
 Chico O'Farrill, the composer, arranger and onetime trumpeter who was one of the primary creators of Afro-Cuban jazz, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived in Manhattan. In one of the happiest career-restoration stories of popular music, Mr. O'Farrill received more rec
 George Senesky, an all-American basketball player at St. Joseph's of Philadelphia and a player and coach for N.B.A. champion Philadelphia Warrior teams, died Monday at a hospital in Cape May Courthouse, N.J. He was 79. The cause was cancer, his family said. A presence in Phi
 Jack Lemmon, the brash young American Everyman who evolved  into the screen's grumpiest old Everyman during a movie career that lasted a half century, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 76 and lived in Beverly Hills. The cause was complications from cancer, said 
 Dr. Maurice Victor, a neurologist, teacher and textbook author, died on  June 21 at his home in Hanover, N.H. He was 81. The cause was metastatic prostate cancer, his family said. Dr. Victor was author, with Dr. Raymond D. Adams, of ''Principles of Neurology,'' a widely used
 Mortimer J. Adler, the philosopher and educator who helped create the Great Books program of learning, died yesterday at his home in San Mateo, Calif. He was 98. Dr. Adler spent much of his life combating the pragmatist philosophy of John Dewey, one of his teachers at Columbia Unive
 William L. Rafsky, a manager in Philadelphia government for four decades, died on June 11 at his home in Philadelphia. He was 81. Mr. Rafsky, a Democrat who had worked for the War Production Board in Washington in World War II, was hired by Mayor Joseph S. Clark Jr., after his elect
 Justice Jay Andrew Rabinowitz, who as a member of the Alaska Supreme Court helped shape state law and was remembered mainly for pronouncing marijuana legal, died on June 16 at a hospital in Seattle. He was 74 and lived in Juneau and Fairbanks. The cause was cancer, his family said. 
 Robert L. Crowell, president of the Thomas Y. Crowell Company, a New York publishing house that is now part of HarperCollins, died on Friday at his home in Ponte Vedra, Fla. He was 92. Mr. Crowell joined Thomas Y. Crowell, the first American publisher of Tolstoy and Gogol, as a sale
 Dr. William H. Sewell, a sociologist who guided a study that looked at the underpinnings of success by following more than 10,000 people over 40 years, died on Sunday in Madison, Wis., where he lived. He was 91. Colleagues credit Dr. Sewell, a member of the National Academy of Scien
