 Coleman A. Young, the combative, tart-tongued former union organizer who became the first black Mayor of Detroit when he was elected in 1973 and then went on to run the city for a record 20 years, died on Saturday at Sinai Hospital in Detroit. He was 79. The cause was respiratory fa
 Mort Pye, who in his 31 years as editor of The Star-Ledger of Newark won praise for using the paper to promote the good in New Jersey and criticism for sometimes ignoring the bad, died yesterday at his home in Tewksbury, N.J. Mr. Pye was 79 and the cause of death was not immediately
 Philip I. BermanPhilip I. Berman, an art collector and philanthropist who was chairman of the Philadelphia Museum of Art from 1989 until October, and  leader of a capital campaign that raised $63.4 million for the museum, died on Wednesday at his home in Allentown, Pa. He was 82. Th
 Stephane Grappelli, the elfin, witty and urbane jazz violinist best known for his role in founding the Quintet of the Hot Club of France, died yesterday in a Paris clinic. He was 89 and lived in Paris. The cause was complications after hernia surgery, said his manager, Michel Chouan
 Edwin (Chapo) Rosario, a three-time world champion boxer whose career inside the ring was marked by brilliance and whose later life outside the ring was marred by drug abuse, died Monday night at his parents' home in Toa Baja, P.R. He was 34. An autopsy performed on Rosario yesterda
 Tristan E. Beplat, an international banking executive who played an important role in the economic reconstruction of postwar Japan, died on Friday at the Columbia Medical Center in Ormond Beach, Fla. He was 85 and lived in Princeton, N.J., and Daytona Beach, Fla. He died of complica
 Endicott Peabody, the scion of two old American families who served just one term in a major elective office but ran frequently for others and led a quixotic campaign to elevate the importance of the Vice Presidency, died on Tuesday at his home in Hollis, N.H. He was 77. The cause w
 Steve Hamilton, who pitched for the Yankees in the 1963 and 1964 World Series and is best remembered for a lobbed pitch known as the Folly Floater, died Tuesday at his home in Morehead, Ky. He was 62. The cause was colon cancer, according to a spokesman for Morehead State University
 Joseph Kahn, who won awards for reporting at The New York Post, died on Tuesday at the Jewish Home and Hospital for the Aged in Manhattan, where he had lived for three years. He was 84. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, Lenore. Mr. Kahn attended City College an
 Julius Barnathan, a longtime ABC executive who was responsible for many technical developments in the television industry, including the use of hand-held and miniature cameras at sports events and closed-captioned programs for the deaf, died on Monday at his home in Roslyn Harbor, N.Y. He w
 James Sardos, a manager of opera singers, died on Nov. 17 at his home in Manhattan. He was 65. The cause was a heart attack from complications of diabetes, said his wife, Rita De Carlo Sardos, a mezzo-soprano. In a career spanning almost five decades, Mr. Sardos managed such
 John E. Moss, the dogged California Congressman whose long, lonely fight against Government secrecy led to the landmark Freedom of Information Act in 1966, died early yesterday at a hospital in San Francisco. He was 84 and had represented Sacramento in the House of Representatives from 1953
 John N. Trainer, a former president of Trainer Wortham & Company, an investment counseling firm, died on Sunday at the Pomperaug Woods Health Center in Southbury, Conn. He was 88. He died after a short illness, said his brother, Robert Trainer. Mr. Trainer joined the firm fo
 Lawrence B. Perkins, a prolific architect whose firm, Perkins & Will, grew into one of the nation's largest practices, died on Wednesday at Evanston Hospital in Evanston, Ill. He was 90 and lived in Evanston. The cause was heart failure, said his son, Lawrence B. Perkins Jr., who he
 Malcolm Shepherd Knowles, widely acknowledged as a founder of adult education as a separate discipline, died on Nov. 27 at the Washington Regional Medical Center in Fayetteville, Ark. He was 84 and lived in Fayetteville. The cause was a stroke, his family said. Dr. Knowles c
 Michael Hedges, a guitarist whose distinctive style meshed folk music, jazz and an exploration of the guitar's sonic capacity, was found dead on Tuesday of injuries suffered in an car accident near Boonville, Calif., in Mendocino County. He was 43, said his manager, Hillary Burgess.        
 Donald Carnegie McKenna, a retired Pennsylvania industrialist, a philanthropist and the namesake of Claremont McKenna College in California, died on Nov. 26 at his home in South Laguna, Calif. He was 90. Mr. McKenna spent most of his business career at Kennametal Inc., a large maker
 Dr. Henry Dolger, a diabetes expert who was one of the first to document that insulin injections were not in fact a miracle cure for diabetes because of the long-term complications of the disease, died on Wednesday at the Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 88 and lived in Manhattan.        
 Dr. Leon Goldman, a pioneer in laser surgery and a leading educator in the field, died on Tuesday in San Diego. He was 91. In 1961, Dr. Goldman became the first researcher to use a laser to treat a human skin disease when he treated melanoma. The method later became popular in remov
 Vic Lombardi, who was part of a pitching staff that carried the Brooklyn Dodgers to one pennant and part of a trade that helped them win three others, died Wednesday at Community Hospital in Fresno, Calif., following heart surgery. He was 75. Lombardi, a left-hander who stood 5 feet
 Dr. Wallace H. Clark Jr., a skin pathologist at Beth Israel Hospital in Boston who devised the first widely used scale for assessing the seriousness of skin cancers called melanomas, died on Nov. 28 at his home in Kennebunk, Me. He was 73. Dr. Clark, a visiting professor of patholog
 Walter J. Addems, a pioneering aviator who built his first plane in 1916 and his last one in the 1960's, but only after he had barnstormed across the nation and flown the mail in the 1920's, trained pilots in the 1930's and served as director of flight operations for United Airlines until t
 Bert Wechsler, a dance and music critic, died on Nov. 30 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 64 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said Jonathan Slaff, a colleague. Mr. Wechsler was an actor and singer before he went on to full-time writing, working for ei
 Dr. Joseph Wolpe, a South African-born psychiatrist who was a pioneer in behavior therapy, died on Thursday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 82. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Eva. Behavior therapy is an approach to psychotherapy based on the idea that people's 
 Joel Barlow, a Washington tax lawyer and former treasurer of the United States Chamber of Commerce, died Tuesday at his home in Delray Beach, Fla. He was 89. He died of complications from a stroke, his former law firm, Covington & Burling, said. Mr. Barlow retired in 1977 af
 Juan Sanchez Arreola, the Mexican farm worker who carried on a seven-year correspondence with Theodore J. Kaczynski, the man accused of being the Unabomber, died Aug. 2 at his home in Ojinaga, Mexico. He was 69. Word of Mr. Sanchez's death came in a letter to The New York Times rece
 Martin B. Stecher, who during a 21-year tenure as a New York State Supreme Court justice ruled on cases involving Joseph Jett, a former government-bond trader at Kidder, Peabody & Company, and Frederick W. Richmond, a former Brooklyn Congressman, died on Thursday at Lenox Hill Hospital in M
 Barry S. Brook, an internationally renowned musicologist who established and led a doctoral program in music at the City University of New York Graduate School, died on Sunday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived in New York City. Professor Bro
 Kermit Goell, a songwriter, died on Thursday in Portland, Me. He was 82. Mr. Goell was perhaps best known as the lyricist for the 1947 hit ''Near You,'' with music by Francis Craig. It was a big seller not only for Craig and his band but also for the Andrews Sisters and, 10 years la
 Willie Pastrano, who went from a chubby adolescent to a world light-heavyweight boxing champion, died of cancer in New Orleans on Saturday night. He was 62. Pastrano had been hospitalized at Tulane Medical Center in New Orleans for two weeks. Angelo Dundee, his former trainer, said 
 Joel White, a naval architect and boat builder who was considered to be one of the country's foremost designers of wooden boats, died Friday at his home in Brooklin, Me. He was 66. The cause was lung cancer, his son Steven said. Working out of his Brooklin Boat Yard just sou
 Leon Poliakov, a historian of anti-Semitism who testified at major war crimes trials, died Monday in France, where he lived, leaders of Jewish groups said. He was 87. Mr. Poliakov wrote the five-volume ''History of Anti-Semitism,'' as well as ''20th Century Totalitarianism,'' ''Jewi
 Woodrow Wyatt, a high-living onetime Socialist politician and journalist who later turned abrasively against the left as a television presenter and conservative tabloid newspaper columnist, died on Sunday in London. Created Baron Wyatt of Weeford in 1987, he was 79. His passage from
 David K. Laniak, the chairman and chief executive of the ACC Corporation, an international telecommunications company, died on Friday at Strong Hospital in Rochester. He was 62. Mr. Laniak, a resident of Rush, N.Y., died from a blood clot in his lungs, a spokesman for the company sa
 Keith Piper, who as the coach at Denison University in Ohio perpetuated the single-wing football formation three decades after it had been discarded by just about everyone else, died Monday aboard a cruise ship off Florida. He was 76. Piper, who had been on the cruise with his wife,
 Laurean Cardinal Rugambwa, who in 1960 become the first African cardinal in the Roman Catholic Church, died Monday in Dar-es-Salaam, the Tanzanian Episcopal Conference announced. He was 85. His elevation to the College of Cardinals by Pope John XXIII was a signal of the church's rec
 Rudolf Bahro, who wrote a book that instantly made him one of East Germany's most prominent dissidents and later became an equally iconoclastic figure in West German politics, died on Friday in Berlin after a long battle with cancer. He was 62. A dedicated Marxist who believed socia
 Tibor Fabian, a founder of Mathematica Inc., a leading economics and public policy research institute in Princeton, N.J., died on Saturday at the age of 74. The cause of death was heart failure after a long illness, his son, Jonathan Fabian, said. Mr. Fabian, an economist, founded M
 Dr. Charles F. Code, a physiologist who overcame the effects of polio and other serious illnesses to enter medical research, where he made significant discoveries about the biochemistry of allergic reactions, died on Nov. 18 at his home in Del Mar, Calif. He was 87. In a wide-rangin
 Hal Lipset, a storied San Francisco sleuth who helped elevate, or rather reduce, electronic surveillance to a miniature art, died on Monday at a San Francisco hospital. He was 78 and was best known as the man who put a bug in a martini olive. Friends said the cause was heart failure
 Irving Bernstein, who was active in Jewish causes since the flight of Holocaust survivors to what became the State of Israel, died Wednesday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 76. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Bernstein was present at events and conferences t
 Carlos Rafael Rodriguez, a Communist intellectual who forged a crucial alliance between Fidel Castro's bearded followers and Cuba's Moscow-line Communists and later served on the Politburo and as Deputy President, died Monday in Havana. He was 84. Mr. Rodriguez suffered from Parkins
 John Fitting Jr., a Dreyfus Corporation executive and pioneer in the creation of no-load mutual funds in the early 1970's, died Wednesday at his retirement home on Marco Island, Fla. He was 81. The cause of death was prostate cancer, said his wife, Judith Kingsley Fitting. I
 Jorge Castaneda de la Rosa, who as Mexico's Foreign Minister from 1979 to 1982 led his country into an assertively independent posture toward the United States and sought to strengthen ties with Central America and Cuba, died here on Thursday of complications from diabetes. He was 76.      
 William W. Winpisinger, a fiery, left-leaning labor leader who battled management, politicians and sometimes his fellow unionists as president of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, died on Thursday at a hospital in Howard County, Md. He turned 73 on Wednesday
 Abraham Bluestein, who made his living as a social services administrator while devoting his life to keeping an old anarchist dream alive, died on Dec. 3 at a nursing home in Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y. He was 88. He may not rank with Proudhon, Bakunin, Malatesta, Kropotkin and other gia
 Morton Bard, who was widely known for his research on the psychology of crime victims, died on Thursday at his home in Atlanta. He was 73. The cause was cancer, said David H. Manning, a spokesman for the City University of New York, where Dr. Bard was a psychology professor before h
 Chauncey J. Medberry 3d, a former chairman of Bank of America and its parent, the BankAmerica Corporation, died on Tuesday at his home in Los Angeles after a brief illness, Mike Zampa, a Bank of America spokesman, said. He was 80. A native of Los Angeles, Mr. Medberry spent his enti
 Dr. Louis Gluck, a pediatrician who developed the modern neonatal intensive care unit, died on Nov. 29 in Saddleback Memorial Hospital in Laguna Hills, Calif. He was 73 and lived in Laguna Hills. The cause was cancer, his family said. Dr. Gluck ''was certainly among the majo
 Samuel Grafton, a liberal voice in American journalism from the 1940's into the 1960's, died on Dec. 2 at his home in Manhattan. He was 90. Mr. Grafton, who continued to contribute to national magazines into the 1980's, became widely known through his syndicated column, ''I'd Rather
 Walter James Levy, a New York-based oil consultant who was considered the dean of United States oil economists, died Wednesday at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 86. In a business charged with intrigue and fierce rivalries, Mr. Levy was respected for his integri
 William E. Slesnick, a professor emeritus of mathematics at Dartmouth College, who wrote about 15 textbooks on the subject for the secondary and college level, died on Nov. 25 at Kendal at Hanover, a retirement home in the New Hampshire town. A resident of Hanover, he was 72. He had
 Jerome R. Mintz, an author and professor emeritus of anthropology and Jewish studies at Indiana University, died on Nov. 22 at his home in Bloomington, Ind. He was 67. In 1993, Professor Mintz received a National Jewish Book Award for ''Hasidic People: A Place in the New World.'' He
 Louis Loss, a professor of law at Harvard University who was widely viewed as the father of securities law, died on Saturday at the Beth Israel-Deaconess Hospital in Boston. He was 83. A Harvard spokesman said Mr. Loss, who lived in Cambridge, Mass., died of congestive heart failure
 Stubby Kaye, the cherubic comedian and singer who was Nicely-Nicely Johnson in the original ''Guys and Dolls'' and who joined Nat King Cole as an on-screen banjo chorus crooning the ballad of Cat Ballou, died Sunday in Rancho Mirage, Calif., where he lived. He was 79. Though Mr. Kay
 William Francis Knight, who established one of the nation's first orange juice processing plants, died on Nov. 24 at his home in Port Charlotte, Fla. He was 93. Mr. Knight received his first big break into business while attending Miami High School in the early 1920's. He took an af
 Charles E. Smith, a publisher of scholarly books and reference works, died on Dec. 7 at his home in Colt's Neck, N.J. He was 60. The cause was lung cancer, his wife, Denise, said. Mr. Smith began his career at the Macmillan publishing company, where he worked his way up from
 Don E. Fehrenbacher, a Pulitzer Prize-winning authority on Abraham Lincoln and the Civil War, died on Saturday, in Stanford, Calif. He was 77 and lived on campus at Stanford University, where he had taught history. Professor Fehrenbacher won the Pulitzer Prize for history in 1979 fo
 Francis Paudras, a commercial artist, author, collector of jazz-related artifacts and patron of jazz musicians, including the pianist Bud Powell, died on Nov. 26 at his castle in Antigny, France. He was 62. He committed suicide, the newspaper Le Figaro reported. While in his
 John M. Braisted Jr., Staten Island's District Attorney from 1956 until he stepped down at the end of 1975, died on Dec. 9 at the home of his son, James, in West Brighton, Staten Island, where he had stayed for six days. He was 90 and lived on Staten Island in Silver Lake for more than 65 y
 W. Gray Mattern Jr., a retired executive secretary of the European Council of International Schools and former headmaster of Wilbraham Academy, died on Nov. 26 at Greenwich Hospital. He was 70 and lived in Stamford, Conn. The cause was a pneumococcal infection, his family said.     
 Ralph Fasanella, who worked as a union organizer, a machinist and a gas station owner but whose lasting fame will be as a late-blooming, self-taught painter of teeming urban panoramas, died on Tuesday at St. John's Riverside Hospital in Yonkers. He was 83 and lived in Ardsley, N.Y. 
 Roger Brown, who turned the attention of many psychologists to the question of how children learn language and who wrote two classic  psychology textbooks, died on Dec. 11 at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 72. Dr. Brown had been suffering from prostate cancer and coronary arter
 Anthony T. Ulasewicz, the ''bagman'' whose deadpan accounts of delivering money to buy the silence of Watergate conspirators both fascinated and delighted Senate investigators, died on Wednesday in Glens Falls, N.Y. He was 79. Mr. Ulasewicz died in a hospital, a newspaper in Saratog
 Chris Farley, a comedian and actor who hammed his way through skits and sketches on ''Saturday Night Live'' as everything from a frenzied motivational speaker to a giddy strip-club dancer, was found dead yesterday in his apartment in Chicago. He was 33. The cause was not immediately
 Lester R. Tuchman, a New York internist, medical researcher and emeritus professor of clinical medicine at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine, died on Wednesday at his home in Cos Cob, Conn. He was 93. Dr. Tuchman retired in 1979 from private practice on the East Side. Durin
 Newbold Noyes Jr., who as editor of The Washington Evening Star from 1963 to 1975 was the last member of four generations of his family to lead the newspaper, died yesterday in Sorrento, Me. He was 79. Mr. Noyes had heart problems, said a son, Newbold Noyes 3d. The Noyes fam
 R. V. Jones, a secret hero of British intelligence in World War II, whose genius for scientific tricks baffled German bombers and saved thousands of lives, died of a heart attack on Wednesday at Woodend Hospital in Aberdeen, Scotland. He was 86. A master practical joker, puzzle-solv
 Uzi Narkiss, an Israeli Army general who led the conquest of East Jerusalem in the 1967 Arab-Israeli war, died today. He was 72 and had cancer. General Narkiss was regarded as the last of the generation of Jews who fought in the pre-independence militia known as the Palmach, which e
 Anthony T. Ulasewicz, the onetime New York City police detective who injected merriment into the Senate Watergate hearings a quarter-century ago by telling of his adventures and misadventures as a ''bagman,'' died on Wednesday in Glens Falls, N.Y. He was 79. Mr. Ulasewicz had spent 
 Chester Baylis Jr., who spent 44 years as an executive of the Bankers Trust New York Corporation, died of cancer on Nov. 25 at his home in Locust, N.J. He was 89. Mr. Baylis, who joined the bank after graduating from Princeton University in 1929, was chairman of Bankers Trust's exec
 Eddie Chapman, a notorious British safecracker who hoodwinked German intelligence in World War II -- winning the Nazis' Iron Cross for bravery while serving as a double agent for Britain -- died on Dec. 11 at a nursing home in Brickett Wood, near London. He was 83. Displaying a tale
 Jack Bruen, the men's basketball coach at Colgate University who inspired fans and alumni with his determination to coach this season despite suffering from pancreatic cancer, died yesterday at his home in Hamilton, N.Y. He was 48. Bruen coached his final game last Saturday, an 80-6
 Jimmy Rogers, one of the most significant figures in the history of electric blues, died yesterday at Holy Cross Hospital in Chicago. He was 73  and lived in Chicago. The cause was complications after surgery for an intestinal infection, said his manager, Tom Radai. Mr. Roge
 Masaru Ibuka, a low-key engineer who co-founded one of Japan's greatest postwar successes, the Sony Corporation, died yesterday at his home in Tokyo. Mr. Ibuka, who was 89, died from heart failure, Sony said in an announcement. Guided by Mr. Ibuka, Sony helped establish Japa
 Owen Barfield, a writer and philosopher of language and the last surviving member of the Inklings, a group of Oxford intellectuals who held passionate discussions about Christianity and mythology at C. S. Lewis's house between the world wars, died at home in East Sussex, England, on Sunday,
 Anthony J. DiGiovanna, a retired Justice of the State Supreme Court in Brooklyn, died Tuesday at his home in the Park Slope section of Brooklyn. He was 92. Justice DiGiovanna joined the State Supreme Court in 1949 and served on that bench for 27 years, until he retired as a justice 
 David Howard Harris, a retired New Jersey lawyer who was a prosecutor and administrative judge in state and Federal government, died last Sunday at the Hospice of West Palm Beach in Florida. He was 89 and had lived in Morris Plains, N.J. Mr. Harris was an assistant prosecutor for Be
 Dr. Ernst F. Jokl, a founder of sports medicine in Germany, South Africa and then the United States, died last Saturday in St. Joseph Hospital in Lexington, Ky. He was 90. In an earlier time, sports injuries, like many other medical problems, were handled by general practitioners. N
 Dr. Irving S. Wright, the first doctor to use an anticoagulant to treat the blood clots that can cause heart attacks and strokes, died on Dec. 8 at his home in Manhattan. He was 96. Dr. Wright, a cardiologist and former president of the American Heart Association, retired in 1968 fr
 Leo August, who developed a boyhood stamp collection and a fascination with airplanes into a prominent philatelic publishing house, died on Dec. 4 at the St. Barnabas Medical Center in Livingston, N.J. He was 83. Mr. August and his older brother Sam were the founders of the Washingt
 Sey Chassler, who expanded the purview of women's magazines beyond printing recipes to promoting equal rights as the editor in chief of Redbook, died on Dec. 11 at the Tisch Hospital at New York University Medical Center. He was 78 years old and lived in Manhattan. The cause was com
 William J. Weisz, a former chairman and chief executive of Motorola Inc., who played a leading role in the electronics company's rapid growth during the 1970's and 1980's, died on Wednesday at his home outside Phoenix. He was 70. Mr. Weisz apparently died of a heart attack, the comp
 David N. Schramm, an astrophysicist who was an eminent authority on the Big Bang theory about how the universe was born, died on Friday when the twin-engine plane he was piloting crashed in a field about 40 miles east of Denver. He was 52 and had homes in Chicago and Aspen, Colo. Pr
 Henry Eugene Manning, a health care administrator who oversaw the groundwork for the creation of New York City's autonomous Health and Hospitals Corporation, died on Dec. 4  at University Hospitals in Cleveland. He was 62 and a Cleveland resident. The cause was complications from lu
 Juzo Itami, a film director whose satirical portraits of Japanese society brought him worldwide acclaim, leaped to his death from a rooftop late Saturday, police officials said today. He was 64 and lived in Tokyo. His apparent suicide came two days before Flash, a weekly magazine, w
 Dr. Norman P. Salzman, a biochemist who discovered some of the secrets of viruses that became important underpinnings of the fledgling fields of molecular virology and molecular biology, died on Dec. 11 at his home in Potomac, Md. He was 71. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his
 Peter A. Leventritt, one of America's greatest bridge players, died on Dec. 6 in Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 82 and lived in Manhattan. He was suffering from complications from diabetes, his stepdaughter, Hope Igleheart of Manhattan, said. Mr. Leventritt represented Nor
 R. Stanton Avery, the inventor of the self-adhesive label and founder of what is now the Avery Dennison Corporation, died Dec. 12 at Huntington Hospital in Pasadena, Calif. He was 90. In 1935, Stan Avery, as he was known, invented a machine to make self-adhesive labels with a $100 c
 Tracy H. Ferguson, a Syracuse lawyer who specialized in labor law, died on Dec. 3, at the age of 87. His family said the cause of death was complications after heart surgery. Mr. Ferguson, a strong advocate of arbitration in labor disputes, was known for his outspoken defense of a l
 Adm. David Lamar McDonald, who commanded American naval forces as the United States' involvement in Vietnam rose and crested, died on Dec. 16 at Baptist Medical Center-Beaches in Jacksonville Beach, Fla. He was 91. As Chief of Naval Operations from 1963 to 1967, Admiral McDonald was
 Edwin W. Rawlings, a four-star general who became a top executive at General Mills after retiring from the Air Force, died on Dec. 8 in a nursing home in Auburn, Wash. He was 93. General Rawlings joined General Mills, which makes cereals, snack foods, yogurt and baking products, as 
 Richard Clark McCurdy, a former president of the Shell Oil Company and an avid sailor who helped develop ways to handicap yacht racing and make it safer, died on Dec. 4 at his home in Darien, Conn., his daughter, Carolyn Wilson, said. He was 88 years old. Mr. McCurdy, who was presid
 Edwin P. Neilan, a tough-talking former head of the United States Chamber of Commerce who campaigned against what he considered excessive Government spending, died on Saturday in his hometown of Corpus Christi, Tex. He was 92. As president and then as chairman of the chamber in the 
 Frank Campbell Waldrop, an author and journalist who had been  editor in chief of The Washington Times-Herald, died on Sunday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 92 and lived in Washington. Mr. Waldrop wrote ''McCormick of Chicago'' (1966), a biography of the publisher
 Jerry Masucci, the owner of Fania Records and a seminal figure in the founding of New York salsa and its spread to other countries, died on Sunday in Buenos Aires, his main residence. He was 62. The cause was an aneurysm that developed after surgery for abdominal pain, said a friend
 William B. Arthur, a former editor of Look magazine, died Dec. 10 at Harborside Healthcare in Naples, Fla. He was 83. The cause of death was cancer, said a son, William B. Arthur Jr. Mr. Arthur joined Look in 1946 in its Washington bureau and he remained at the magazine for 
 Les Harrison, a professional basketball pioneer who founded and coached the Rochester Royals, a dominant team of the late 1940's and early 1950's, died Tuesday at Highland Hospital in Rochester. He was 93. Harrison, a member of the Basketball Hall of Fame in Springfield, Mass., coac
 Toshiro Mifune, the most internationally celebrated of Japanese film actors, whose work, particularly for the director Akira Kurosawa, galvanized generations of performers in the United States and around the world, died yesterday at a hospital in Mitaka, near his home in Tokyo. He was 77.  
 Bernard Schwartz, a legal scholar and prolific historian who helped lawyers and lay readers alike to fathom the inner workings of the American system of government and particularly those of the Supreme Court, died on Tuesday in Tulsa, Okla., where he had lived for the last five years. He wa
 Edward Thorgerson, a pioneer sports announcer in the early days of radio, died at his home in Wolfeboro, N.H., on Monday. He was 95. As a young announcer for NBC, where he began his career in 1927, Mr. Thorgerson broadcast the news of the Lindbergh kidnapping live from Hopewell, N.J
 William A. Smalley, who as a young American linguist, anthropologist and missionary sat with the ancient Hmong peoples in the mountains of Laos, listened to the patterns of their speech and helped them develop their first permanent written language, died on Dec. 16 in New Haven. He was 74 a
 Giorgio Strehler, the grand master of Italian theater and one of the world's boldest and most innovative directors, died on Thursday at his home in Lugano, Switzerland. He was 76. The cause was a heart attack, reported The Associated Press. In a career of more than 50 years,
 Pierre Peladeau, the Quebec tabloid publisher who read Balzac and revered Beethoven while building one of the most powerful communications empires in Canada, died on Wednesday at Hotel-Dieu Hospital in Montreal. He was 72. Mr. Peladeau had been in a coma since suffering a heart atta
 Abram J. Jaffe, a social scientist and labor expert at Columbia University who studied the economic conditions of migrants, working women and retirees, died on Monday at a nursing home in Englewood, N.J. He was 85 and lived in Leonia, N.J. The cause was heart failure after a long il
 Denver Pyle, a television and film actor known for his roles as a wise Southern uncle on ''The Dukes of Hazzard'' and a melodic mountain man on ''The Andy Griffith Show,'' died Thursday in Providence St. Joseph Medical Center in Burbank, Calif. He was 77. Mr. Pyle was suffering from
 Ernest (Polly) Rosborough, a pioneer of modern fly-fishing in the Western states and a noted fly tyer, died last Tuesday at Hearthstone, a nursing home near Klamath Falls, Ore. He was 95. Although he was born in Mammoth Spring, Ark., a region that offers fishing almost exclusively f
 Sebastian Arcos Bergnes, a prominent Cuban dissident and human rights campaigner who fought the dictatorships of Fidel Castro and Fulgencio Batista, died here on Monday night. He was 65 and had lived in Havana until coming to Miami two years ago for medical treatment. Relatives said
 Lieut. Gen. Thomas Samuel Moorman, an expert in meteorology who navigated the Air Force Academy through a squall of ethical lapses as its longest-serving superintendent in the 1960's, died on Tuesday at a retirement residence in Sterling, Va. He was 87 and had moved to Virginia from Colorad
 William Pendleton House, a guardian of the New Hampshire woods who scaled the world's most daunting peaks decades before it became fashionable, died last Thursday at Monadnock Community Hospital in Peterborough, N.H. He was 84 and lived in Harrisville, N.H. The cause was cardiac arr
 Brendan Gill, a pillar of New York's civic, social and literary life for nearly half a century, died on Saturday at New York Hospital. Mr. Gill, who was also a prominent advocate for architectural preservation and other visual arts, was 83 and lived in Bronxville, N.Y. The cause of 
 John Adair, an anthropologist who studied the Navajo for decades, was involved in films about and by them and underwent a Navajo healing ceremony in his frail old age, died on Dec. 14 at his home in San Francisco. He was 84. Dr. Adair, a native of Memphis, worked with the Navajo and
 Dr. Roy Orval Greep, a multifaceted anatomist who earned threefold emeritus status at Harvard University, died on Dec. 5 at his home in Laguna Hills, Calif., where he moved from Massachusetts two years ago. He was 92. Dr. Greep, a onetime high school dropout, retired in 1974 as dire
 James M. Nabrit Jr., an important figure in the legal struggle of American blacks against segregation who went on to be the president of Howard University in Washington in the 1960's, was declared dead on arrival on Saturday in Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington. He was 97 and li
 The Rev. Albert J. Nevins, the author of many books and documentaries for young people and adults, a past president of the Catholic Press Association and a founder of the Catholic Institute of the Press, died on Dec. 15 at St. Teresa's Residence in Maryknoll, N.Y. A Maryknoll priest for 55 
 William M. LeFevre, a stock market analyst who frequently discussed financial trends in newspapers and magazines and on radio and television, including CNN and the Public Broadcasting System, died Dec. 4 at his home in the Murray Hill section of Manhattan. He was 69. He had been tre
 Danilo Dolci, an advocate of nonviolent social reform whose writings and poetry chronicled Sicily's beauty and sense of despair, died today in a hospital in Sicily of heart failure. He was 73. Mr. Dolci, who suffered from diabetes and was debilitated recently by pneumonia after a vi
 Gilbert W. Fitzhugh, a former chairman and chief executive of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, died on Monday at the Meadow Lakes Health Care Center in Hightstown, N.J. He was 88 years old and had been ailing for several years with Alzheimer's disease, said his son, Gilbert Van Ingh
 J. Richardson Dilworth, a philanthropist and retired financier who was a former chairman of the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York and the Institute for Advanced Study  in Princeton, N.J., died on Monday at the Princeton Hospital. He was 81 and lived in Princeton. The cause was 
 Johnny Coles, a trumpeter and fluegelhornist who illuminated some of the best jazz groups of the 1950's and 60's with his warm, soft sound, died on Dec. 21 at the University of Pennsylvania Hospital in Philadelphia. He was 71. The cause was stomach cancer, Darlene Drummond, his niec
 Raymond A. Ericson, a music critic for The New York Times for nearly three decades, died yesterday at Danbury Hospital in Connecticut. He was 82 and lived in Sherman, Conn. Mr. Ericson, who had worked as an organist and choir director before joining The Times, was partial to  Baroqu
