 Donald J. Mitchell, a Republican from New York who served in the House of Representatives for 10 years, died on Saturday in Little Falls, N.Y. He was 80. The cause was complications from Parkinson's disease, said Gretchen Barr, his daughter. In his time in the House, from 19
 Harry Goz, an actor who was an understudy in ''Fiddler on the Roof'' and wound up playing the lead, died on Sept. 6 in a hospital in Manhasset, N.Y., where he lived. He was 71. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Margaret. Mr. Goz made his Broadway debut in a minor role in 
 Jackie Flosso, the last owner of a little shop of magical wonders that was once partly owned by Houdini, died on Sunday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 77. The cause was kidney and heart ailments and other problems, said Ted Bogusta, a friend who took over the busines
 Bernard H. Kamenske, former chief of the Voice of America's news operation, died on Sept. 25 in Bethesda, Md. He was 75 and lived in Bethesda. The cause was heart and lung disease, said Alan L. Heil Jr., a former colleague. Mr. Kamenske became chief of the news operation in 
 Irving Sloan, a retired supermarket executive and a philanthropist with a special concern for the handicapped, died on Monday at Beth Israel North hospital in Manhattan. He was 88 and lived on the Upper East Side. Beginning in the 1930's, Mr. Sloan, with his brother Joseph, operated
 Rex Robbins, who performed on stage, in movies and in more than 300 commercials, died on Sept. 23 in Pierre, S.D., while visiting relatives. He was 68 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a subdural aneurysm, or a ballooning blood vessel in the brain, said his daughter Mary Victori
 Chubby Jackson, a jazz bassist almost as well known for his onstage exuberance as for his playing, died on Wednesday at a hospice in Paway, Calif., near his home in Rancho Bernardo. He was 84. He had had cancer for several years and was also on dialysis, his son, Duffy, said.       
 John T. Dunlop, a Harvard economics professor who was considered a foremost labor relations expert and served every president from Franklin D. Roosevelt to Bill Clinton, died on Thursday at the Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. He was 89. President Harry S. Truman turned to Pr
 Rabbi Ephraim Oshry, whose interpretations of religious law helped sustain Lithuanian Jews during Nazi occupation and were buried in tin cans for retrieval and publication after the Holocaust, died on Sept. 28 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 89. Rabbi Oshry was a young 
 Peter Waters, a superb bookbinder who became one of the world's leading authorities on large-scale book conservation, died on June 26 at his home in Fairfield, Pa. He was 73. The cause was heart failure due to mesothelioma, a rare form of cancer, his wife, Sheila, said. His 
 William Steig, whose insouciant cartoons of street-tough kids and squiggly drawings of satyrs, damsels, dogs and drunks delighted and challenged readers of The New Yorker for more than six decades, died Friday in Boston. He was 95. Mr. Steig was also the author of more than 25 child
 Joseph M. McCrane, who was instrumental in creating the Meadowlands sports complex and luring the New York Giants to New Jersey, died Sept. 28 in Napa, Calif. He was 79. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. In 1970, as state treasurer under Gov. William T. Cahill, 
 Sidney S. McMath, a two-term governor of Arkansas who earned a reputation as a racial progressive in the years leading to the civil rights movement, died on Saturday at his home in Little Rock. He was 91. Mr. McMath, the governor from 1949 to 1953, was one of the South's promising p
 Fred Tuttle, a Vermont dairy farmer who in his late 70's won fame far beyond his fields by starring in a cult movie and winning the Republican nomination for United States Senate, died on Saturday. He was 84. Mr. Tuttle died of a heart attack on the same farm in Tunbridge, Vt., wher
 Israel H. Asper, the driving force behind Canada's largest media group and a prominent philanthropist, died on Tuesday in Winnipeg, Manitoba. He was 71. Mr. Asper became ill and was admitted to a local hospital earlier in the day, according to a spokesman for his company, who along 
 Lyle Bettger, a character actor who became one of the movies' most recognizable villains in the 1950's and 60's, died on Sept. 24 at the home of his son Lyle in Atascadero, Calif. He was 88 and lived in Paia, Hawaii. Mr. Bettger was best known for portraying ruthless types who were 
 Neil Postman, a prolific and influential social critic and educator best known for his warning that an era of mass communications is stunting the minds of children -- as well as adults -- died on Sunday at a hospital in Flushing, Queens. He was 72 and lived in Flushing. The cause wa
 Stephen Jay Rose, a founder of AC&R Advertising, which specialized in fashion, retail and high-end brands like Estée Lauder, the cosmetics maker, and Foot Locker, the athletic shoe retailer, died on Sept. 30 at his home in St. Thomas in the Virgin Islands. He was 77. The cause was 
 Arthur Berger, an American composer whose rugged, economically scored music straddles Neo-Classicism and Serialism, and who established a sideline career as a thoughtful writer and critic, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Boston. He was 91 and lived in Cambridge, Mass. Mr. Berger wa
 Charles Courtney Seabrook, who with his brothers and father carried out food-freezing experiments in the early days of the frozen food industry, died on Saturday at the Friends Home in Woodstown, N.J. He was 94. In 1930 Mr. Seabrook, his brothers Belford and John, and their father, 
 Henry L. Giordano, a pharmacist who went undercover as a federal drug agent and eventually surfaced to take charge of the Treasury Department's narcotics bureau in the 1960's, died on Sept. 19 in Olney, Md. He was 89 and lived in Silver Spring, Md. President John F. Kennedy chose Mr
 Eugene Istomin, the American pianist who was as renowned for his chamber music performances as he was for his individualistic, deeply considered solo playing, died yesterday at his home in Washington. He was 77. The cause was liver cancer, said a spokeswoman for the John F. Kennedy 
 Vincent P. Brennan, a retired executive of Bloomingdale's, died on Oct. 4 at his home in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 84. In nearly 40 years at the department store, Mr. Brennan held a variety of management positions in what is now commonly called human resources. In the 1950's he was di
 John Darcy Noble, who so adored dolls and toys that he became a leading museum curator, theorist, collector and creator of playthings, died on Sept. 21 at his home in Vista, Calif. He was 80. The cause was complications of diabetes, said his companion of 44 years, Robert M. Clement,
 Bill Shoemaker, the 4-foot-11, 98-pound dynamo who was among horse racing's most renowned figures and who rode the winners of 11 Triple Crown races, died yesterday at his home in San Marino, Calif. He was 72. Shoemaker died in his sleep, Paddy Gallagher, his assistant in his years a
 Darrell Henline, publisher and editor of the monthly magazine Cabaret Scenes, died on Sept. 25 at his home in Guttenberg, N.J. He was 75. The cause was complications of pancreatic cancer, said Peter Leavy, an editor at the magazine. Mr. Henline started Cabaret Scenes in 1995
 Emil Ludwig Fackenheim, a German-born philosopher and Jewish theologian who sought to place the Holocaust in the context of Judaism, died on Sept. 19 in Jerusalem, where he had lived after retiring from the University of Toronto in 1984. He was 87. Dr. Fackenheim narrowly escaped fr
 William Bennett, a rock guitarist and entrepreneur whose studio near ground zero provided a haven to frustrated performers with day jobs on Wall Street who dreamed of playing live rock and roll, died on Oct. 7 at Bellevue Hospital Center. He was 49. The cause was complications of in
 PETRA, that Jordanian ''rose-red city half as old as time,'' is a spectacular place where a narrow, dark ravine suddenly opens into a vista of massive temples with Hellenic columns and pediments carved into red sandstone cliffs. It was the capital of the Nabateans, whose sophisticated tradi
 Carl Fontana, a jazz trombonist whose effortless-sounding virtuosity became widely known through his tenure with the Woody Herman and Stan Kenton bands, died on Thursday in Las Vegas, where he lived. He was 75. He had been suffering from Alzheimer's disease. Mr. Fontana was 
 Joel E. Segall, an economist and former president of Baruch College whose master plan helped make the business-oriented school a major presence in Manhattan, died on Thursday at a hospice in Branford, Conn. He was 80 and lived in Branford. Dr. Segall, who earlier had a career at the
 Ram Gopal, one of the greatest Indian dancers of the 20th century and a pioneer in acquainting Western audiences with traditional Indian dance, died on Sunday in a nursing home in southwest London. He was believed to be in his 80's or early 90's. Mr. Gopal was always reticent about 
 Dr. Bertram N. Brockhouse, who shared the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1994 for his work developing a technique to measure the atomic structure of matter, died on Monday in Hamilton, Ontario. He was 85. An emeritus professor of physics at McMaster University in Hamilton, Dr. Brockhouse
 Edward T. Breathitt Jr., a former Democratic governor of Kentucky who made civil rights his theme at a time when few politicians below the Mason-Dixon line would do so, died on Tuesday at the University of Kentucky Hospital in Lexington. He was 78 and lived in Lexington. He collapse
 Lee Bailey, an expert on the stylish life well known for his writing, cooking and photography and his work as a designer of home furnishings, died yesterday at his apartment in Chelsea. He was 76 and lived in Manhattan and in Bridgehampton, N.Y. He had had a series of strokes, inclu
 Richard Talmage Perkin, a television executive and philanthropist who founded the VZV Research Foundation, which backs research and education about chickenpox, shingles and other infections caused by the varicella-zoster virus, died on Thursday in Manhattan. He was 72. He was chairm
 Ben Metcalfe, a founder of the small environmental group that over three decades grew into Greenpeace International, with three million members, died Tuesday at his home on Shawnigan Lake, Vancouver Island, British Columbia. He was 83. The cause was a heart attack, the organization 
 John Hawkesworth, a British television writer and producer whose long-running nighttime soap opera, ''Upstairs, Downstairs,'' became an equally long-running hit on American public television in the 1970's, died on Sept. 30 in Leicester, England. He was 82. Mr. Hawkesworth produced a
 James R. Lawson, who climbed to perches in towers -- including one in Riverside Church on the Upper West Side of Manhattan -- to make exquisite music by ringing bells, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Cody, Wyo. He was 84. Mr. Lawson was a carillonneur, one of the best known in 
 Alija Izetbegovic, the former Bosnian president whose dream of a Muslim-led independent Bosnia and Herzegovina was transformed by Balkan ethnic rivalries into a protracted war, died Sunday in Sarajevo. He was 78 years old. The cause of death was heart disease complicated by injuries
 Dr. Aubrey Gorbman, a zoologist who helped pioneer the study of endocrine systems and hormones in animals and humans and explored the relationships of the systems among different species, died on Sept. 21 at his home in Seattle. He was 88. The cause was Parkinson's disease, said his
 Charlie Justice, the University of North Carolina's all-American tailback known as Choo Choo who was among college football's most celebrated players of the late 1940's, died Friday at his home in Cherryville, N.C. Justice, who had been in poor health in recent years, was 79. Zigzag
 Dr. Ivan Getting, a major force behind the development of the Global Positioning System, the network of satellites that pinpoint locations on Earth within a range of feet, died on Oct. 11 at his home in Coronado, Calif. He was 91. Dr. Getting conceived the satellite technology in th
 Ralph Francis Salerno, a highly decorated New York City policeman and an authority on organized crime, died last Wednesday in Scranton, Pa. A former resident of Woodside, Queens, he was 78 and had lived in Lake Ariel, Pa., since 1988. The cause was congestive heart failure, his fami
 Vance Jordan, a leading dealer in American art and a pioneer in promoting the American Arts and Crafts Movement, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 60 and lived in Manhattan. The cause of death was cancer, his sister, Jill Spangler, said. In the late
 Charles E. F. Millard, who as chairman and chief executive of the Coca-Cola Bottling Company of New York fought for bottler's rights and led the company through a period of sharp growth, died Monday at his home in Fenwick, Conn., near Old Saybrook. He was 71. The cause was pulmonary
 Luis A. Ferré, a dominant force in the politics, economy and culture of Puerto Rico for much of the last century and a tireless proponent of statehood, died yesterday in San Juan. He was 99. Mr. Ferré (pronounced fay-RAY) served one term as governor of Puerto Rico from 1969 throug
 Elliott Smith, whose songs of despair and self-doubt made him a luminary of independent rock and earned him an Academy Award nomination, died on Tuesday in Los Angeles. He was 34. His body was found by his girlfriend at their home in the Silver Lake section of the city, with a singl
 Jack Elam, whose leer, bulging eye and precise acting skills transformed him from an accountant into one of the movies' most identifiable villains, died on Monday at his home in Ashland, Ore. Most published sources list him as 86. A friend in Ashland, Al Hassan, told The Associated 
 Roy A. Anderson, who as chairman and chief executive of the Lockheed Corporation steadied and rebuilt the floundering company in the late 1970's and early 1980's, died on Saturday at his home in California. He was 82. Mr. Anderson had been in failing health for several years, said B
 Don Evans, a playwright of the African-American experience, about which he also taught at the College of New Jersey for 30 years, died on Oct. 16 at his home in Merchantville, N.J. He was 65. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. A member of the Black Arts movement 
 William Goldberg, a leader of Manhattan's diamond district known both for dealing in some of the biggest diamonds sold in modern times and for trying to lift his industry's historic veil of secrecy, died Monday at his apartment in Manhattan. He was 77. The cause was pancreatic cance
 Frank Richlan, a founder of the Manhattan-based architecture firm Beckhard Richlan Szerbaty & Associates, died on Sept. 10 at his home in Nutley, N.J. He was 61. The cause was cancer, the family said. His longtime partner and co-founder of the firm, Herbert Beckhard, died the next d
 Herbert Beckhard, who with Frank Richlan founded the New York architectural firm Beckhard Richlan Szerbaty & Associates, known as BRS+A, died on Sept. 11 at his home in Glen Cove, N.Y. He was 77. The cause was complications of a fall, said John Arbuckle, an associate in the firm. Mr
 Former United States Representative James M. Hanley, a liberal Democrat who served eight terms in the House representing a district comprising Syracuse and upstate New York counties, died on Oct. 16 in Geddes, N.Y. He was 83. Mr. Hanley, who was a funeral director and owner of a fun
 John Hart Ely, a constitutional scholar of dazzling originality and wide influence, died on Saturday in Miami. He was 64. The cause was cancer, his wife, Gisela Cardonne Ely, said. Professor Ely, who had taught law at Harvard and Yale and had been dean of the Stanford Law Sc
 Former Representative William C. Cramer, the first Republican congressman from Florida since Reconstruction, died on Oct. 18 in South Pasadena, Fla. He was 81 and lived in nearby St. Petersburg. The cause was complications of a recent heart attack, his family said. Mr. Crame
 Garrett Hardin, an ecologist and author who warned of the dangers of overpopulation and whose concept of the ''tragedy of the commons'' brought attention to the damage that innocent actions by individuals can inflict on the environment, died at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif., on Sept. 14
 Walter E. Washington, who in 1975 became the first elected mayor of Washington in more than a century, died yesterday at Howard University Hospital in Washington. He was 88. The great-grandson of a slave, Mr. Washington had earlier been appointed head of Washington's government by P
 Ernie Calverley, a basketball star at Rhode Island State who was remembered for a 62-foot game-tying shot in the 1946 National Invitation Tournament at Madison Square Garden, died Oct. 20 at a hospital in Providence, R.I. Calverley, who lived in Wakefield, R.I., was 79. The cause wa
 John J. Fay Jr., the New Jersey lawmaker who wrote legislation creating the post of ombudsman to monitor care of the elderly in institutions and then became the first to fill the job, died on Monday at his home in Metuchen, N.J. He was 76. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his wife, 
 Franco Corelli, the Italian tenor whose powerhouse voice, charismatic presence and movie-star good looks earned him the adoration of opera fans from the 1950's until his retirement in 1976, died yesterday in Milan. He was 82 and lived in Milan. He had been suffering from heart probl
 Jack Meador, a Texas hardware salesman who became a central figure in a scheme to sell medieval art treasures stolen from a German cathedral in World War II, died on May 25 in Sherman, Tex., unnoticed by the art world he had tried to deceive. He was 83. Mr. Meador's death was follow
 Bill Sargent, a Hollywood showman whose highly promoted videotaped events were among the first closed-circuit theatrical specials and pay-per-view television showings, died on Oct. 19 in Caddo, Okla., where he was born and later lived in retirement. He was 76. The cause was a heart 
 George C. Scott Jr., a former vice chairman of Citibank who served as its top credit policy executive in the late 1960's and early 1970's, died Monday at his home in Locust, N.J., according to Nancy Crabbe, his niece. He was 95. Mr. Scott went to work at Citibank in 1929 as a messen
 Harry Clement Stubbs, whose rigorously worked out stories, published under the name Hal Clement, accentuated the science in science fiction, died on Wednesday in Milton, Mass. He was 81. Mr. Stubbs, who held degrees in astronomy, chemistry and education, had a dual career teaching h
