 Buddy Hackett, the streetwise comedian from Brooklyn with a face like a plate of mashed potatoes, died yesterday at his beach house in Malibu, Calif. He was 78. The cause of death is not yet known, Mr. Hackett's son, Sandy, said. Mr. Hackett's career spanned more than half a
 Robert McCloskey, the writer and illustrator whose classic children's books -- among them ''Make Way for Ducklings'' and ''Blueberries for Sal'' -- captivated generations of young readers and their parents, died yesterday on Deer Isle, Maine. He was 88. A small-town boy with a gift 
 Buddy Hackett, the roly-poly streetwise comedian from Brooklyn whose puckish, irrepressible clowning was a fixture on America's home screens in the 1950's and 60's, died on Monday at his beach house in Malibu, Calif. He was 78. The cause was not announced, pending a coroner's report
 Bernard A. Goldhirsh, who started a newsletter-publishing business in his basement that grew into Inc. magazine, one of the first publications to profit by aiming at owners of small businesses, died on Sunday in Boston. He was 63. The cause was complications from a brain tumor, The 
 Herbie Mann, who helped to popularize the flute as a jazz instrument and to introduce the music of other cultures into the mainstream of American jazz, died on Tuesday at his home in New Mexico. He was 73 and lived in a cabin in Pecos, near Santa Fe. The cause was prostate cancer, h
 Ivan Allen Jr., who as mayor of Atlanta led racial integration efforts in the 1960's at a time when other Southern cities were erupting in violence, died yesterday in Atlanta. He was 92. Mr. Allen, the grandson of a Confederate cavalryman, came from a wealthy and distinguished Georg
 Najeeb E. Halaby, who was once a leader in the airline industry and was known more recently as the father of Queen Noor of Jordan, died today at his home in McLean, Va. He was 87. Mr. Halaby, formerly of Alpine, N.J., had lived in McLean in recent years. He also had a home on Martha
 Rod Amateau, a movie veteran who worked on classic early television comedies like ''Dobie Gillis'' and the Bob Cummings and Burns and Allen shows as a writer, director or producer, died on Sunday in Los Angeles. He was 79. The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, said his friend Jerry P
 Dr. Joseph R. Wilder, a New York surgeon who also became a well-known artist, died on July 1 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 82. The cause of death was coronary arrest, his daughter Piper said. From the 1960's until his retirement in the mid-1980's, Dr.
 The Rev. Dr. Preston R. Washington, a prominent Harlem minister who led efforts to build housing and cope with the AIDS epidemic, among many other challenges, died on June 25 at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 54 and lived in New Rochelle, N.Y.. The cause was heart failu
 Anthony Dapolito, a baker whose battles for his community earned him the honorary title of mayor of Greenwich Village, died on Wednesday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan, one day before his 83rd birthday. He had a stroke last year, but the cause of death was pneumonia, his wif
 Barry White, whose deep voice and lushly orchestrated songs added up to soundtracks for seduction, died yesterday in Los Angeles. He was 58. A statement released by his manager, Ned Shankman, said the cause was kidney failure caused by hypertension. In his songs, Mr. White c
 Briggs Swift Cunningham II, a sportsman whose affinity for yachts and cars drew him to sailboat racing as an America's Cup skipper and to auto racing as the creator and driver of his custom sports car, died Wednesday at his home in Las Vegas. He was 96. Cunningham sailed in the 1958
 Moran Caplat, who for 36 years managed the Glyndebourne Opera Festival in Britain, helping to make the festival one of the pre-eminent musical events in Europe, died on June 19 at Tunbridge Wells in Kent. He was 86. Mr. Caplat started at Glyndebourne in 1945 as an assistant to Rudol
 The Rev. Norman J. O'Connor, a Roman Catholic priest who was also a well-known authority on jazz, died last Sunday in Wayne, N.J., where he lived. He was 81. The cause was a heart attack, the medical examiner's office said. Father O'Connor, whose name was seldom mentioned in
 Andrew Heiskell, a former chairman of Time Inc. and a philanthropist whose efforts at civic improvement helped rescue the New York Public Library and Bryant Park from shabbiness and decline and provide low-cost housing on a large scale in New York, died yesterday at his home in Darien, Conn
 Henry Thomas Lipman, the second director of the Institute for Retired Professionals at what was then the New School for Social Research, died on June 22 at St. Vincent's Manhattan Hospital. He was 87 and lived in Greenwich Village. Professor Lipman spent 20 years at New York Univers
 Robert M. Batscha, who worked to preserve, archive, study and permanently exhibit two of the more ephemeral modes of mass communication as the longtime president of the Museum of Television and Radio, died Friday in Manhattan. He was 58. The cause was cancer, said Diane Reed, the di
 Buddy Ebsen, a gangly and personable Ziegfeld song-and-dance man in the late 1920's who gained lasting fame on television as Davy Crockett's sidekick, a hillbilly in Beverly Hills and an aging private eye, died on Sunday in Torrance, Calif. He was 95 and lived in nearby Palos Verdes.       
 C. C. Wang, a Chinese-American artist and collector, who sold important and sometimes controversial examples of classical Chinese painting to many American museums and who was viewed by admirers as the last in a centuries-old line of Chinese scholar-artists, died on Thursday in Manhattan. H
 Charles P. Kindleberger, an economic historian who advanced the study of international finance and helped to devise the Marshall Plan for Europe's reconstruction after World War II, died on Monday in Cambridge, Mass. He was 92. Professor Kindleberger won fame for originating the ide
 Chaim Engel, who helped carry out a group escape from a Nazi death camp, driven by the need to kill for revenge and hoping to save himself and his future wife, died on July 4 in New Haven. He was 87. Mr. Engel had a stroke after a car accident and then developed pneumonia, said his 
 Lord Shawcross of Friston, who was Britain's chief prosecutor of Nazi war criminals at Nuremberg in 1945 and who, as attorney general, also conducted treason trials against infamous British spies and turncoats, died yesterday at his home in Cowbeech, south of London. He was 101. Amo
 Lewis Alfred Coser, a politically active sociologist who grappled with the social role of intellectuals in influential books, articles and speeches, as well as in his personal politics, died on Tuesday in Cambridge, Mass. He was 89 and lived in Cambridge. Dr. Coser wrote or edited t
 Vasil V. Bykov, the acclaimed Belarussian writer whose novels about the bitter truths of war roused the ire of Soviet leaders and won him the admiration of millions of his countrymen, died on June 22 in a clinic in Minsk. He was 79. The cause was stomach cancer, his family said.    
 Benny Carter's career was remarkable for both its length and its consistently high musical achievement, from his first recordings in the 1920's to his youthful-sounding improvisations in the 1990's. His pure-toned, impeccably phrased performances made him one of the two pre-eminent alto sax
 Benny Carter, whose combination of highly developed talents as composer, arranger, bandleader and soloist on a variety of instruments was unmatched in the jazz world, died Saturday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 95.       
 Benny Carter, whose combination of highly developed talents as composer, arranger, bandleader and soloist on a variety of instruments was unmatched in the jazz world, died Saturday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 95. A Versatile Master Benny Carter's career was remarkab
 Patrick M. Wall, a Manhattan criminal defense trial lawyer with many prominent clients and the author of a respected book in his field, died on July 5 in White Plains, N.Y. He was 68 and lived in White Plains. The cause was heart failure, said his son Patrick M. Wall Jr. Amo
 Robert S. Mullaney, an aeronautical engineer and executive at the Grumman Corporation who helped oversee the construction of the craft that landed Apollo astronauts on the moon, died at his home in Bellport, N.Y., on July 6. He was 82. Mr. Mullaney was a former Navy pilot who had a 
 Compay Segundo, the salty Cuban singer and guitarist who rose to global fame in his 90's as the eldest of the elder musical statesmen featured on the album and film ''Buena Vista Social Club,'' died on Sunday at his home in Havana, an official at his record company in Spain said. He was 95.
 Eliot Wald, a comedy writer for television and films, died on Saturday in Los Angeles. He was 57 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was liver cancer, said his wife, Jane Shay Wald. Mr. Wald, whose earlier career included a stint as a television critic and as a rock-music wr
 Ralph Emerson Cross, an engineer and manufacturer who helped bring modern automation to the postwar auto industry, died at his home in Grosse Pointe, Mich., on June 26. He was 93. In a career that lasted more than 50 years, he transformed a relatively small family business into one 
 Dr. O. Currier McEwen, a former dean of the New York University School of Medicine who was instrumental in the creation of the N.Y.U. Medical Center, died on June 23 in Harpswell, Me. He was 101 and lived in Harpswell. Dr. McEwen, an expert on rheumatic diseases, was on the school's
 Frederic Bradlee, a New York actor and writer, died on Saturday at his home on the Upper East Side. He was 84. A native New Yorker whose original name was Frederick Josiah Bradlee III, Mr. Bradlee attended Harvard and Columbia Universities, but dropped out when he was hired as an un
 Tex Schramm, an innovative force in pro football who directed the rise of the Dallas Cowboys and was a major figure in bringing about the merger between the rival American and National Football Leagues, died yesterday at his home in Dallas. He was 83. He had been in ill health for s
 John D. Gerhart, a specialist in African agriculture and land use for the Ford Foundation and president of the American University in Cairo until his retirement last year, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 59. The cause was cancer of the appendix, his wife, Gail, said
 Paul J. Bernal, a Pueblo Indian elder who, as a liaison to the federal government, helped his people recover title to their sacred Blue Lake in the Sangre de Cristo Mountains of northern New Mexico, died on Wednesday in Taos Pueblo. He was 92. Mr. Bernal was a principal in the last 
 Gary MacEoin, a onetime candidate for the priesthood who turned to writing and lecturing about Latin American social conditions and the Roman Catholic Church, died on July 9 in a rehabilitation center in Leesburg, Va., where he had been recuperating from a fall. He was 94 and a resident of 
 Dr. John F. Eisenberg, whose research and writing on animal behavior, genetics and evolution made him one of the world's foremost experts on mammals, died on July 6 at his home in Bellingham, Wash. He was 68. The cause was renal cancer, his associates said. Dr. Eisenberg, wh
 John Vasil Krutilla, an economist who reckoned the dollars and cents of environmental preservation, died on June 27 at his home in McLean, Va. He was 81. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. Dr. Krutilla spent most of his professional career, from 1955 to 1988, with R
 William R. Smith, whose company made the Snapper brand of self-propelled lawn mowers, died on June 28 at Henry Medical Center in Stockbridge, Ga. He was 90 and lived in McDonough, Ga. Mr. Smith was president and chief executive of the company, originally called McDonough Power Equip
 Harold Lewis, a longtime dean of the Hunter College School of Social Work who helped it gain national recognition, died on Friday at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 83. As the second dean of the School of Social Work at Hunter, Dr. Lewis led it from 1970 to 1990
 Mel Wong, a dancer, choreographer and visual artist, died on Thursday after collapsing at a swimming pool in Santa Cruz, Calif. He was 64 and lived in Santa Cruz. The apparent cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Connie Kreemer. Mr. Wong performed with the Merce Cunningh
 Charles F. Myers Jr., a former chairman and chief executive of Burlington Industries, died on Sunday at Wellspring Retirement Center in Greensboro, N.C. He was 92. Mr. Myers began a 27-year career with Burlington, the textile manufacturer, in 1947 as head of its financial services d
 Elliot Norton, a theater critic in Boston for nearly 50 years whose reviews of Broadway-bound shows on tryout runs were carefully read by New York producers, died on Sunday in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., where he had lived since November. He was 100 and had been a longtime resident of Watertown,
 Nicolas Freeling, the British detective novelist whose popular Inspector Van der Valk and later Detective Henri Castang unmasked crime in modern Europe, died on Sunday in France, the London press reported. He was 76 and lived in Schirmeck, a village in Alsace. Mr. Freeling produced 
 Norman Lewis, a British travel writer of the old school, who described the world he saw before the proliferation of Club Med and McDonald's, died on Tuesday in Saffron Walden, Essex, England. He was 95. Mr. Lewis was also a novelist of distinction. As a professional literary travele
 Stanley H. Fuld, who was known for his concern for civil liberties during the 27 years he served on New York State's highest court, 6 of them as chief judge, died on Tuesday at his home in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 99. In hearing more than 13,000 cases and writing more than 800 o
 Gerald Stanley Hawkins, a British-born astronomer who theorized that the Stonehenge megaliths on Salisbury Plain were a Stone Age astronomical computer of sorts, died on May 26 at his farm in Rappahannock County, Va. He was 75 and also had a home in Washington. The cause was a heart
 Honey Craven, the longtime manager and ringmaster of the National Horse Show in Madison Square Garden, the Devon Horse Show in Pennsylvania and almost every other major horse show in the United States, died Tuesday in a nursing home in Guilford, Conn. He was 98. Mr. Craven had been 
 John Schlesinger, the Academy-Award-winning director of ''Midnight Cowboy'' whose other films -- including ''Billy Liar,'' ''Sunday, Bloody Sunday'' and ''Darling'' -- often captured the plight of individuals grasping for life support in contemporary society, died yesterday in Palm Springs,
 Harold C. Schonberg, the ubiquitous and authoritative chief music critic of The New York Times from 1960 to 1980, whose reviews and essays influenced and chronicled vast changes in the world of opera and classical music, died yesterday at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 87 and live
 Dr. Kurt Semm, whose pioneering techniques in minimally invasive surgery were initially ridiculed but led to innovations in many types of operations, died on July 16 at his home in Tucson, Ariz. He was 76. The cause was complications of a form of Parkinson's disease, his family said
 Nadav Safran, a professor of government at Harvard and an expert in Middle Eastern politics whose background as a Jew born in Cairo gave him an unusually wide perspective on a volatile region, died on July 5 in State College, Pa. He was 77. The cause was cancer, his daughter Abigail
 Trevor Nelson, a producer for ''60 Minutes,'' died on Thursday in Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 34 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from meningitis, CBS said in a statement. Mr. Nelson produced reports for the correspondent Steve Kroft o
 Norman C. Rasmussen, a former professor of nuclear engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who pioneered a technique for measuring risk at nuclear power plants, died on July 18 at a nursing home in Concord, Mass. He was 75. The cause was complications from Parkinson
 J. Wilson Newman, a former chairman and chief executive of Dun & Bradstreet, died on July 8 at the Morningside assisted-living center at University Village in Charlottesville, Va. He was 93. Mr. Newman joined the R. G. Dun Company as a credit reporter in 1931. Dun merged with its ma
 James P. Shenton, a Columbia University history professor who combined serious scholarship with a gregarious command of lecture halls, television and other public forums, died on Friday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Paterson, N.J., a hospital spokeswoman said yesterday. He was 78. A v
 Bob Hope, whose mastery of the comic monologue and the topical wisecrack carried him from vaudeville to Broadway musicals and then on to worldwide fame as a radio, film and television star of the first magnitude, died on Sunday at his home in Toluca Lake, Calif. He was 100.       
 Bob Hope, whose mastery of the comic monologue and the topical wisecrack carried him from vaudeville to Broadway musicals and then on to worldwide fame as a radio, film and television star of the first magnitude, died on Sunday at his home in Toluca Lake, Calif. He was 100. Road to 
 There was nothing Bob Hope loved more than an audience, and audiences responded in kind, particularly soldiers facing combat who desperately needed a laugh. He once chartered a yacht for a cruise in Canadian waters. It was one of the few formal vacations he ever took, and he found he could 
 Vance Hartke, a three-term Democratic senator from Indiana best known for his criticism of the American involvement in the wars in Southeast Asia, died on Sunday in Fairfax, Va. He was 84 and lived in Falls Church, Va. The apparent cause was a heart attack, said his family, who said
 Tex McCrary, a legendary New York public relations man and political strategist who with his wife, the actress and model Jinx Falkenburg, helped create and popularize the talk-show format on radio and television in the 1940's and 50's, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 92 and lived in Man
 Dr. Aaron Bell, who was bassist for Duke Ellington from 1960 to 1962 and worked with him later as an arranger, died on Monday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 82 and had lived in Mount Vernon, N.Y. Dr. Bell celebrated the anniversary of Ellington's birth at a concert in 1983
 James J. McFadden, New York City's chief labor negotiator under Mayor Robert F. Wagner, died on Tuesday in Valhalla, N.Y. He was 83. The cause was complications of leukemia, his son Peter said. Mr. McFadden lived in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. He was acting labor com
