 Arthur Melin, the co-founder of Wham-O, which introduced fads like the Hula-Hoop and lasting diversions like the Frisbee, died on Friday at a care center in Costa Mesa, Calif. He was 77 and had lived in Irvine, Calif. The cause was Alzheimer's disease, his wife, Suzy, said. 
 Clifford Possum, who painted some of the masterpieces of Australian aboriginal art, died on June 21 in Alice Springs in the Australian desert, an ancient landscape he depicted in the mythical terms central to his heritage. He was about 70, art historians said. In accordance with tri
 Timothy White, the editor in chief of Billboard magazine, died on Thursday afternoon at the magazine's Manhattan offices. He was 50, lived in Boston and commuted to New York City. The cause was apparently a heart attack, according to billboard.com. Mr. White, who always wore
 Berl Senofsky, a prize-winning violinist who became a respected music teacher, died on June 21 at his home in Baltimore. He was 77. The cause was complications from heart and lung disease, his family said. Born in Philadelphia to Russian immigrant parents, Mr. Senofsky studied at the Juilli
 Frederick O'R. Hayes, New York City's budget director for four years in the early, optimistic days of the administration of John V. Lindsay, died on Sunday in Utica, N.Y. He was 78 and lived in Utica. The cause was cancer of the esophagus, his family said. Mr. Hayes came to 
 Pete Gray, who became a major league outfielder despite the loss of his right arm in a childhood accident, appearing with the St. Louis Browns for a single season during World War II, died Sunday at a nursing home in Sheatown, Pa. He was 87. Playing in 77 games for the 1945 Browns -
 Adm. Robert L. J. Long, who led the commission that found senior military officials responsible for security lapses in the Beirut barracks attack that killed 241 marines in 1983, died on Thursday at the National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, Md. He was 82 and lived in Annapolis, Md.    
 Elliott Wilk, a state judge who mixed a leftist outlook, shrewd analysis and a dry wit to ride herd over cases from Woody Allen's custody battle to the rights of the homeless, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 60. The cause was brain cancer, said his wife, Betty Levins
 Harold L. Oshry, an early proponent of automobile leasing in the United States, died on June 29 at his home in Tamarac, Fla. He was 84. In 1955, Mr. Oshry set up the All-State Auto Leasing Corporation and developed it into one of the earliest car-leasing companies in the country. Th
 Max Schneier, whose daughter's manic-depressive illness inspired him to wage a relentless crusade for better treatment for the mentally ill, died on June 17 in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 85 and lived in Lauderhill, Fla., and Rawdon, Quebec. Mr. Schneier, a layman who knew little a
 Richard Flusser, an opera director and music teacher whose diminutive After Dinner Opera Company was a mainstay in the margins of the opera world for more than 50 years, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 75. From its founding in 1949, the After Dinner Opera worked on a
 Harold Haley Haskin, a marine biologist who championed the cause of the oyster, died June 23 at his home in Cape May Court House, N.J., on the banks of his beloved Delaware Bay. He was 87. He was best known for his co-discovery of MSX, the parasite that nearly wiped out the once luc
 Ray Brown, whose feather-fingered, guitar-like virtuosity on the bass carried him to the summits of jazz peformance for a half century, died on Tuesday in Indianapolis. He was 75. He had failed to show up for a 9:15 p.m. show at a club there and was found dead in his hotel room, app
 Dr. Martin Deutsch, a pioneer in the preschool education of disadvantaged children who helped form the national Head Start program, died on June 26 at Norwalk Hospital in Connecticut. He was 76. The cause was renal failure, said his wife, Dr. Cynthia Deutsch. In 1962, Martin
 Frederic Mohs, a surgeon at the University of Wisconsin who invented a surgical technique for treating certain skin cancers that bears his name and is practiced worldwide, died on Monday at his home in Madison. He was 92. Mohs surgery, originally also known as chemosurgery, allows t
 Meyer Reinhold, an author and scholar of classical studies, died on Monday in Nashville. He was 92. Dr. Reinhold, who was born in Brooklyn, was a firm believer in popularizing the classics by teaching them in translation. In so doing, he parted company with more traditional scholars
 Lt. Gen. Benjamin O. Davis Jr., who broke color barriers and shattered racial myths as the commander of the Tuskegee Airmen, the pioneering black fighter pilots of World War II, died on July 4. He was 89. He died at Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington, an Air Force spokesm
 John Thompson, a professor, literary critic and poet, died on June 24 at his home in Manhattan. He was 84. Mr. Thompson was a professor of English at the State University of New York at Stony Brook from 1965 to 1983, and was the author of an acclaimed text on the history of British 
 Lionel Bernstein, a white South African Communist and anti-apartheid campaigner who stood trial for treason in 1963 alongside Nelson Mandela and seven others, died June 23 in his home in the English village of Kidlington in Oxfordshire. He was 82. The so-called Rivonia trial, named 
 Suliman S. Olayan, a Saudi billionaire whose energy, insurance and consumer goods businesses as well as investments made him one of the richest men in the world, died Thursday night at his home in Manhattan. He was 83. His primary residence was in Riyadh, the Saudi capital, but he a
 Ted Williams, the tempestuous slugger of the Boston Red Sox who was the last man to bat .400 and was perhaps the greatest hitter in baseball history, died yesterday in Inverness, Fla. He was 83. Williams was in cardiac arrest when he was brought to Citrus County Memorial Hospital fr
 Gen. Benjamin O. Davis Jr., who broke color barriers and shattered racial myths as the commander of the Tuskegee Airmen, the pioneering black fighter pilots of World War II, died on Thursday. He was 89. He died at Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington, an Air Force spokesman
 James Lee, an unsuccessful actor who found his calling as a writer for the stage, screen and television, died on Tuesday at a Santa Monica, Calif., nursing home. He was 79 and lived in Brentwood, Calif. The cause was heart failure and emphysema, said his daughter, Megan Copeskey of 
 John Frankenheimer, one of the foremost directors of the 1960's with classic films like ''The Manchurian Candidate,'' ''Seven Days in May,'' ''Birdman of Alcatraz'' and ''The Train,'' died of a massive stroke today from complications after spinal surgery. He was 72. Mr. Frankenheime
 Kenneth Koch, a poet of the New York School whose work combined the sardonic wit of a borscht-belt comic, the erotic whimsy of a Surrealist painter and the gritty wisdom of a scared young soldier, died yesterday after a long battle with leukemia at his home in Manhattan. He was 77. 
 Dr. W. Maxwell Cowan, an internationally known neurobiologist and a retired vice president of the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, died June 30 at his home in Rockville, Md. He was 70. The cause was prostate cancer, said the Robert A. Pumphrey Funeral Home in Bethesda, Md. A
 Earle Brown, an innovative experimental composer who allowed performers considerable interpretive freedom, and whose vision of sound as an almost concrete object is often expressed in a form of graphic notation that conveys the importance of time and space in his music, died on Tuesday at h
 John Frankenheimer, one of the foremost directors of the 1960's with classic films like ''The Manchurian Candidate,'' ''Seven Days in May,'' ''Birdman of Alcatraz'' and ''The Train,'' died Saturday of a stroke resulting from complications after spinal surgery. He was 72. Mr. Franken
 Kenneth Koch, a poet of the New York School whose work combined the sardonic wit of a borscht-belt comic, the erotic whimsy of a Surrealist painter and the gritty wisdom of a scared young soldier, died Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 77. The cause was leukemia. Mr.
 John Mosler, a former chairman and chief executive of the Mosler Safe Company, which made vaults used for guarding the nation's wealth at Fort Knox and protecting the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution and the Bill of Rights in Washington, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Hospital i
 Lore Noto, the theatrical producer who nurtured a little show called ''The Fantasticks'' and turned it into the world's longest-running musical, died on Monday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 79 and lived in Forest Hills, Queens. He died after a long battle with cancer, his
 Rod Steiger, whose taut and intensely personal approach to a wide variety of roles placed him among the finest character actors of the last 50 years and brought him an Academy Award in 1967 for his depiction of the bigoted Southern sheriff in the film ''In the Heat of the Night,'' died yest
 Ward Kimball, a Disney animator who created Jiminy Cricket, updated Mickey Mouse and brought the crows to life in a famous scene in ''Dumbo,'' died on Monday in Arcadia, Calif. He was 88 and lived in San Gabriel, Calif. Mr. Kimball was hired by Walt Disney in 1934 and became part of
 William B. Ruger, an American gun designer who founded Sturm, Ruger & Company, the largest firearms manufacturer in the United States, died on Saturday at his home in Prescott, Ariz.. He was 86. The company, which Mr. Ruger started in 1949 in a partnership with Alexander McCormick S
 Mark McGarrity, who wrote a popular series of richly detailed mystery novels set in Ireland under the pen name Bartholomew Gill, died in a fall late last Wednesday night or early last Thursday morning outside his home in Morristown, N.J. He was 58. He fell and hit his head while try
 Dhirajlal Ambani, one of India's most successful entrepreneurs, who built up the Reliance Group into the country's largest industrial concern, died on Saturday in Bombay. He was 69. The cause was a stroke, according to the company. Mr. Ambani presided over a $12.5 billion em
 Dr. Monroe E. Wall, a chemist who helped discover the cancer drugs Taxol and camptothecin, died on Saturday at a hospital in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 85. The cause was heart and kidney failure, said the Research Triangle Institute in North Carolina, where he had worked for the last 
 Jan Zamoyski, the head of one of Poland's richest and most powerful noble families, whose life reflected his country's turbulent and destructive political fate in the 20th century, died on June 29 in Warsaw. He was 90. In May 1939, just months before the invasion by Germany, Count Z
 John Wallach, a former senior editor with Hearst Newspapers who founded Seeds of Peace, a summer camp in Maine that brings together children from opposing sides of conflicts around the world, died on Tuesday in New York. He was 59. The cause was lung cancer, Seeds of Peace said.    
 Michael McLaughlin, who wrote close to a dozen cookbooks and contributed to as many more after collaborating on the groundbreaking ''Silver Palate Cookbook'' in 1982, was found dead last week at his home in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 53. His family said he died of natural causes around J
 Alan Shulman, a composer and cellist whose works were performed by orchestras, chamber groups and jazz ensembles, died on Wednesday at a nursing home in Hudson, N.Y. He was 86. Two of Mr. Shulman's most frequently performed scores are the sweetly Neo-Classical Theme and Variations f
 Ira Eaker, a founder of Back Stage, the weekly theatrical newspaper that is a must-read for many actors seeking work, union news and reviews, died on June 26 at a hospital in Tamarac, Fla. He was 80. An advertising man who worked for various publications during college, Mr. Eaker go
 Irv Kaze, who in almost a half-century as a sports executive worked for some of the most famous owners in sports, died June 29 in Glendale, Calif. He was 75. His family said that shortly after he completed his weekly radio talk show for KRLA-AM, he had a heart attack in a restaurant
 Yousuf Karsh, whose photographic portraits of the famous and the powerful are known to millions throughout the world, died yesterday at 93. He died after surgery at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, said his nephew, Sidney Karsh. Best known for his World War II portrai
 Joaquín Balaguer, a former president of the Dominican Republic who was among the last of the classic Latin American strongmen and one of the longest-lasting political figures of the 20th century, died yesterday at a hospital in Santo Domingo. He was 95. Short, shrewd and indomitabl
 Yousuf Karsh, whose photographic portraits of the famous and the powerful are known to millions throughout the world, died yesterday at 93. He died after surgery at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, said his nephew, Sidney Karsh. Best known for his World War II portrai
 Benny Peled, who commanded the Israeli Air Force at two historic junctures -- the Middle East war of 1973 and the rescue of Israeli hostages in Entebbe, Uganda, in 1976 -- died on Saturday in Israel. He was 74. The cause was emphysema, the Israeli press reported. Mr. Peled, 
 Sid Avery, a Hollywood photographer who was known for capturing the private moments of stars like Elizabeth Taylor, Rock Hudson, James Dean and Audrey Hepburn, died on July 1 in Los Angeles. He was 83. Mr. Avery's work in the 1950's and 60's was a departure from the glamorized, soft
 Charles Burton, a British explorer who took part in the first expedition to circumnavigate the globe from pole to pole, died on Monday at his family home in the English village of Framfield in Sussex. He was 59 and had suffered a heart attack, said his brother, Richard. Setting off 
 John J. Gilbert, one of the earliest and most persistent gadflies to speak out at annual meetings on behalf of small shareholders -- dramatizing his demands with such attention-getting props as a red clown's nose -- died on Monday at his daughter's home in Denver. He was 88. Margot 
 William F. Gorog, a technology entrepreneur who was one of the first to develop the public's ability to pay over the phone with credit cards and later via the Internet, died Sunday at a hospital in Falls Church, Va. He was 76 and lived in nearby McLean. The cause was lung cancer, fa
 Col. Floyd J. Thompson, who for almost nine years endured cold cells, jungle cages and torture in Vietnam, becoming the longest-serving American prisoner of war in any conflict, died on Tuesday at his home in Key West, Fla. He was 69. The cause was unclear, said Charles Ingraham, a 
 Hal Simms, for decades one of the most frequently heard announcers on CBS television, died on July 2 in a nursing home in Brookline, Mass., his family said. He was 83. From the early 1950's until his retirement in 1992, Mr. Simms was a familiar offstage presence on shows like ''Beat
 Joseph Marie Antoine Hubert Luns, a former Dutch foreign minister and NATO secretary general, died yesterday, Dutch government officials said. Dr. Luns was 90 and living in Brussels. He suffered a stroke five years ago and had required close medical attention ever since. A h
 Michael A. McCarthy, an architect who blended a cool sense of modernism with traditional Muslim forms to create New York's most significant new house of worship in recent decades, the Islamic Cultural Center mosque on the Upper East Side, was found dead in his Manhattan apartment Tuesday. H
 The Rev. David S. Toolan, a Jesuit priest, theologian, editor and author who explored the connection between science, the environment and religion, died on Tuesday at the Jesuit infirmary at Fordham University in the Bronx. He was 66 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was colon cance
 Edmund Anderson, a former stockbroker with an interest in music who became a producer and also influenced the career of his friend Duke Ellington, died on June 29 at his home in Quogue, N.Y. He was 89. Mr. Anderson, who worked for some years at his father's brokerage, Anderson & Com
 John Cocke, a leading computer scientist whose inventions spanned an uncommon range of computing technology from software to microprocessors, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Valhalla, N.Y. He was 77. The cause was a long illness, including a series of strokes, said his nephew Norma
 Mario Juruna, a chief of the Xavante Indians of central Brazil and the only Indian to serve in the Brazilian Congress, died on Tuesday in Brasília. He was 58. The cause was complications from diabetes, said a spokesman for Santa Lúcia Hospital. Mr. Juruna was elected to Br
 Seymour SolomonSeymour Solomon, who with his brother, Maynard, founded Vanguard Records in 1950 and turned it into the dominant label for American folk music, recording such artists as Joan Baez, Odetta, Buffy Sainte-Marie and Ian & Sylvia, died yesterday at his summer home in Lenox, Mass. 
 Alan Lomax, the legendary collector of folk music who was the first to record towering figures like Leadbelly, Muddy Waters and Woody Guthrie, died yesterday at a nursing home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 87. Mr. Lomax was a musicologist, author, disc jockey, singer, photographer, talen
 Aleksandr I. Ginzburg, a poet and a frequently jailed dissident in the Soviet Union who fought for human rights during the Khrushchev and Brezhnev eras, died yesterday in his adopted city of Paris. He was 65. No cause of death was given. Mr. Ginzburg was an advocate of nonviolent ch
 Constantine Leventis, head of a London-based Greek Cypriot business dynasty and a major benefactor of Hellenic art at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York and other museums around the world, died on July 11 in London. He was 64. The cause was cancer, said his brother, Tassos. 
 George Rickey, a sculptor widely known for his abstract kinetic sculptures, died on Wednesday at his home in St. Paul, Minn. He was 95. Mr. Rickey was one of two major 20th-century artists to make movement a central interest in sculpture. Alexander Calder, whose mobiles Mr. Rickey e
 Percy Yutar, the South African prosecutor who in 1964 won convictions and lifetime prison terms for Nelson Mandela and other African National Congress leaders for crimes against the white minority-ruled state, died July 13. He was 90. In 1995, Mr. Mandela, released from prison and e
 Chaz M. Holder, a triple amputee who devised a new way of making artificial legs and arms, died on July 4 at his home in Fayetteville, N.C. He was 55. The cause was a heart attack, Ruth Clark, his business partner, said. Dr. Holder was many things, including a Protestant min
 Jack Olsen, a writer famous for his meticulously researched and psychologically illuminating true-crime books, died Tuesday at his home on Bainbridge Island, Wash. He was 77. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Su. Mr. Olsen wrote more than 30 books, on subjects ran
 Rosco Gordon, a rhythm-and-blues singer and piano player from Memphis who influenced rock 'n' roll and reggae, died on July 11 at his home in Rego Park, Queens. He was 74. The cause was a heart attack, said his daughter Victoria. Mr. Gordon had a string of hits in the 1950's
 Edward Lee Howard, the former C.I.A. agent who defected to the Soviet Union in the mid-1980's after a disappearing act in the New Mexico desert, has died. He was 50. ''The embassy has received reports that Edward Lee Howard died on July 12th,'' said Richard A. Boucher, the State Dep
 Frank Shea, the Yankees pitcher who beat the Brooklyn Dodgers twice in the 1947 World Series to highlight a remarkable rookie season, died last Friday at Yale-New Haven Hospital. He was 81. The cause was complications from heart-valve surgery that he underwent last month, his family
 Henry Thornberry, a former executive editor of The New York Times News Service, died Sunday in Coxsackie, N.Y. He was 76. The cause was a heart attack, said his daughter Susan Maraglio. Mr. Thornberry joined The New York Times in 1974 as syndication editor. A year later he m
 Prince Ahmed bin Salman, the Saudi Arabian businessman who owned War Emblem, the winner of this year's Kentucky Derby and Preakness Stakes, and Point Given, thoroughbred racing's 2001 horse of the year, died yesterday at a hospital in Riyadh. He was 43. The cause was a heart attack,
 Chaim Potok, a scholar and ordained rabbi whose best-selling novels about Hasidic Judaism explored the wrenching decision to forsake a close-knit parochial community for the world outside, died yesterday at his home in Merion, Pa. He was 73. He had been ill with cancer for some time
 Leo McKern, the veteran stage and screen actor who became best known for his television role as the shrewd and exasperating British barrister ''Rumpole of the Bailey,'' died yesterday at a nursing home near his home in Bath, England. He was 82. He had been ill for some time, his age
 Matt Dennis, a singer and songwriter who wrote ''Let's Get Away From It All,'' ''Everything Happens to Me,'' ''Angel Eyes'' and other big-band-era standards, died on June 21 in a hospital in Riverside, Calif. He was 88 and lived in Riverside. Though he was an accomplished singer, wi
 Paul Weiss, an indefatigable philosopher who kept teaching despite the efforts of some of the best American universities to stop him because of his advancing age, died on July 5 at his home in Washington. He was 101. Dr. Weiss published more than 30 books. His most recent, ''Emphati
 William Luther Pierce, an ascetic physics professor who built an organization of young supporters for George Wallace for president into the nation's largest neo-Nazi group, and whose novel ''The Turner Diaries'' was credited by Timothy J. McVeigh with inspiring the Oklahoma City bombing, di
 Arnold Weinstock, who for 30 years dominated Britain's electrical and electronics industries with his giant General Electric Company, only to be ousted by critics who then virtually bankrupted the company, died on Tuesday at his home in Wiltshire. He was 77. The cause was cancer, Th
 Dave Carter, a folk singer and songwriter, died on Friday in Hadley, Mass. He was 49 and lived in Portland, Ore. The cause was a heart attack, said his performing partner and companion, Tracy Grammer. Mr. Carter was in the area to perform at a music festival in Greenfield, M
 David Asseo, the chief rabbi of the tiny Jewish community in Turkey, who strove for decades to buttress tolerance among the different religions there, died on July 14 in Istanbul, where he lived. He was 88. At his death he was the longest serving of the chief rabbis in Europe, with 
 Jimmy Maxwell, who played trumpet with many of the best-known big bands in jazz and was also a mainstay of the radio and television studios, died on Saturday at his home in Great Neck, N.Y. He was 85. As a lead trumpeter in the bands of Benny Goodman, Count Basie, Woody Herman and o
 Msgr. Richard B. Curtin, who conducted choirs for two papal visits to Yankee Stadium and produced several records of religious choral music, died on Sunday in Riverdale, the Bronx. He was 86. In 1965, as Pope Paul VI entered Yankee Stadium for a Mass during the first papal visit to 
 Ned Martin, a radio and television broadcaster for the Boston Red Sox for three decades, died Tuesday, a day after he appeared at Fenway Park for the team's tribute to Ted Williams. He was 78. Mr. Martin collapsed at Raleigh-Durham International Airport while en route to his home in
 George Biderman, who organized opposition to a plan by Robert Moses for a four-lane highway the length of Fire Island, N.Y., died on July 20 at his home on the West Side of Manhattan. He was 81. The cause was throat cancer, his son, John Biderman, said. Fire Island, off Long
 Paul Revere, to whom Boston turned repeatedly whenever it wanted to celebrate a direct link to his Colonial ancestor's midnight ride, died on Wednesday at his home in Braintree, Mass. He was 85. Mr. Revere, a Boston milkman for 30 years, was a fourth-generation descendant of the Pau
 Richard T. Liddicoat, an executive of the Gemological Institute of America who was behind the four C's method of grading diamonds now familiar to couples around the world, died on Tuesday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 84. Mr. Liddicoat's legacy was a grading system ''used by je
 Robert Giard, a photographer who took hundreds of portraits of gay and lesbian writers, died on July 16 en route to Chicago. He was 62 and lived in Amagansett, N.Y. He was traveling by bus from Minneapolis and died of what appeared to be a heart attack, said his companion, Jonathan 
 Walter C. McCrone, a chemical analyst who used his microscope to conclude that the Shroud of Turin never enveloped the body of Jesus and that a famous ancient map belonging to Yale University is probably a fake, died on July 10 in Chicago, long his hometown. He was 86. Dr. McCrone, 
 Clark Gesner, the composer and lyricist of ''You're a Good Man, Charlie Brown,'' the good-natured and oft-produced musical based on the ''Peanuts'' comic strip, died on Tuesday on a visit to the Princeton Club in Manhattan, of which he was a member. He was 64. The cause was a heart 
 Joe Derise, a former big band singer and a cabaret artist in New York for many years, died on June 24 in a hospice in Shelton, Conn. He was 76 and lived in Derby, Conn. The cause was cancer, his family said. At age 21 Mr. Derise became Tommy Dorsey's vocalist. Later he perfo
 Mel Triplett, the fullback for the Giants' 1956 National Football League champions, died Thursday in a nursing home in Toledo, Ohio. He was 71. He died of complications from diabetes, a daughter, Teresa Triplett-Smith, said. The 1956 final was a memorable game in which the G
 Rudiger Dornbusch, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology whose explanation of why currency exchange rates sometimes fluctuate sharply became a tenet of international economics, died on Thursday at his home in Washington. He was 60 and also had a home in Boston. T
 India's vice president, Krishan Kant, who fought against both British rule and Indira Gandhi's suspension of democracy, in 1975, died today, just short of the end of his term. He was 75. The cause of death was a heart attack, said a spokesman for the All India Institute of Medical S
 Pete Seibert, who transformed a sheep pasture in the Colorado Rockies into the Vail ski resort, died July 15 at his home in Edwards, Colo. He was 77. The cause was cancer, said Jennifer Brown, a spokeswoman for Vail Resorts. In 2000, Ski magazine placed Mr. Seibert third on 
 Dr. Bertram D. Cohn, a pioneering pediatric surgeon and the inventor of an early filter used to prevent pulmonary embolism, a common and often fatal condition, died on July 12 in Greenport, N.Y. He was 76. The cause was a heart attack, said his son Jonathan. Dr. Cohn, a resi
 Dr. George E. Lindsay, who as director of the California Academy of Sciences helped turn its Natural History Museum into a major institution, died on July 16 at his home in Tiburon, Calif., near San Francisco. He was 85. Dr. Lindsay was the director of the academy, in San Francisco,
 Dr. Morton A. Schiffer, who was chairman of the obstetric advisory committee to New York City's health commissioner from 1972 to 1982, died on Friday at his home in West Norwalk, Conn. He was 88. Dr. Schiffer was a clinical professor of obstetrics and gynecology at Yale's School of 
 Ed Runge, an American League umpire from 1954 through 1970 and the father and grandfather of major league umpires, died Friday at a hospital in San Diego. He was 87. His son, Paul Runge, was a National League umpire from 1974 through 1997 and, for the next two years, the National Le
 Wallace Carroll, a retired newspaper editor and publisher who campaigned against the Vietnam War and led his paper to a Pulitzer Prize for environmental reporting, died on Sunday in a nursing home in Winston-Salem, N.C. He was 95. Mr. Carroll had first joined The Winston-Salem Journ
 Kenny Gardner, the light-voiced, cheerfully smooth tenor who for almost 30 years was the featured crooner with Guy Lombardo and His Royal Canadians, died on Friday in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 89 and lived in Plandome, N.Y. The cause of death was a heart attack soon after having an app
 Laszlo Tauber, a Hungarian-born surgeon who saved other Jews in the Budapest ghetto during World War II, then made a real estate fortune in Washington and became a major philanthropist while remaining virtually unknown to the public, died on Sunday at his home in Potomac, Md. He was 87.    
 Maurice Denham, a British character actor whose face was familiar in movies and television but who achieved his greatest fame playing a gallery of characters in the hit British radio shows ''It's That Man Again'' and ''Much Binding in the Marsh,'' died last Wednesday in London. He was 92.  
