 Gordon S. Macklin, who guided the growth of one of the world's largest securities trading systems, the computerized service known as Nasdaq, died Tuesday in Delray Beach, Fla. He was 78. The cause was a stroke, his assistant, Anna Fukara, told Bloomberg News. More than three
 Joseph S. Farland, who as the American ambassador to Pakistan in 1971 helped Henry A. Kissinger surreptitiously slip into China for 36 hours to lay the groundwork for President Richard M. Nixon's historic visit to China, died Sunday at his home in Winchester, Va. He was 92. The caus
 Bernie Friedkin, a native of Brownsville, Brooklyn, who was known as Schoolboy and who as a professional boxer in the late 1930s and early '40s battled many of his opponents to a draw -- including three former lightweight champions -- died Jan. 18 in Brooklyn. He was 89. He 
 Sidney Sheldon, an Oscar- and Tony-winning writer of squeaky-clean fare for stage and screen who became world famous for his later career as a writer of steamy, best-selling novels, died on Tuesday in Rancho Mirage, Calif. He was 89 and had homes in Malibu and Palm Springs, Calif. T
 Gian Carlo Menotti, who wrote his first opera before he was 11 and went on to become perhaps the most popular and prolific opera composer of his time, winning two Pulitzer Prizes, died Thursday in Monaco, where he had a home. He was 95. His death, at Princess Grace Hospital, was ann
 Ken Kavanaugh, an All-Pro receiver for the Chicago Bears in the 1940s and an assistant coach and scout for the New York Giants for 45 years, died Jan. 25 in Sarasota, Fla., where he had lived since retiring from football in 1999. He was 90. The cause was complications of pneumonia, 
 Bob Carroll Jr., a founding writer of ''I Love Lucy'' who helped introduce millions of viewers to the joys of frenzied grape stomping, warp-speed chocolate-stuffing and the increasingly tasty 46-proof patent medicine Vitameatavegamin, died on Jan. 27 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 88.  
 Eric von Schmidt, a performer and composer of folk music who as a boy instantly fell in love with the blues when he heard Leadbelly on the radio, and who went on to be a mentor to and to inspire singers like Bob Dylan and Joan Baez, died yesterday in Fairfield, Conn. He was 75. His 
 Whitney Balliett, a jazz critic who in more than 40 years at The New Yorker magazine encouraged readers to hear jazz through his vividly metaphorical writing, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 80. The cause was cancer, said his son Will Balliett. In describing 
 Calvin H. Plimpton, an educator who was instrumental in opening Amherst College's doors to women and who later, as president of American University of Beirut, sought to quell the violence as civil war raged in Lebanon, died on Tuesday at his home in Westwood, Mass. He was 88. Dr. Pl
 Jules Olitski, a painter and sculptor who became a widely admired and controversial member of the second generation of American abstract artists, died yesterday in New York. He was 84 and lived in Islamorada, Fla., and Meredith, N.H. The cause was cancer, said his daughter Lauren Ol
 Roy Kuhlman, whose jazzlike improvisational paintings and graphics for Grove Press books in the 1950s and '60s introduced an Abstract Expressionist style to graphic design, died in Mesa, Ariz. He was 83. Although he had Alzheimer's disease for several years, the cause of death was p
 George Becker, who at 15 literally followed his father's footsteps into a steel mill in his Illinois hometown and rose to become the sixth president of the United Steelworkers union, died on Saturday at his home in Gibsonia, Pa. He was 78. The cause was prostate cancer, his son Greg
 Hans Wegner, whose Danish Modern furniture -- most famously his chairs -- helped change the course of design history in the 1950s and '60s by sanding modernism's sharp edges and giving aesthetes a comfortable seat, died on Jan. 26 in Copenhagen. He was 92. His death was confirmed by
 Ralph de Toledano, a news magazine editor, syndicated columnist and author of 25 books who was best known for his friendship with Richard M. Nixon and his passionate embrace of the conservative cause, died on Feb. 3 in Washington. He was 90. His death was announced by his nephew Dav
 David W. Denton, once the third-ranking prosecutor in the office of the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, died Monday. He was 57. The cause was brain cancer, said his wife, Judge Reena Raggi of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.   
 Frankie Laine, a singer who achieved enormous popularity in the 1940s and 50s with a robust voice and a string of hits including ''That's My Desire,'' ''Mule Train,'' ''Ghost Riders in the Sky'' and ''Jezebel,'' died on Tuesday in San Diego. He was 93. The cause was cardiovascular d
 Lew Burdette, the Milwaukee Braves' right-hander who beat the Yankees three times in the 1957 World Series, twice on shutouts, in one of the most dominant pitching performances in baseball's postseason history, died yesterday in Winter Garden, Fla. He was 80. His death was announced
 M. Lamar Muse, the first president of Southwest Airlines and a pioneer of airline deregulation, died Monday in Dallas. He was 86. His family announced his death. He told friends in an e-mail message recently that he had ''fast growth cancer.'' Mr. Muse became president of So
 Alan G. MacDiarmid, who shared the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 2000 for the discovery of plastics that conduct electricity like metals, died yesterday at the age of 79. He died after a fall down stairs in his home in the Drexel Hill suburb of Philadelphia while rushing to catch a fl
 Bradley Krause, who by raising his hand in his college graphics arts class became a founding partner of Kinko's, the office supply and printing company, died on Jan. 24 near his home in Cutchogue, N.Y. He was 58. The cause was cancer, his wife, Stuie, said. Mr. Krause was a 
 Maj. Gen. Ellis W. Williamson, who led the first Army combat troops into South Vietnam, died on Jan. 28 in Arlington, Va. He was 88. Jean O'Neil, a friend of the family, announced the death. General Williamson participated in the D-Day landings in Normandy in World War II an
 Leon J. Thal, a leading researcher on drugs to treat Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia, died on Saturday in a plane crash near Borrego Springs, Calif. He was 62. He had been chairman of the neurosciences department at the University of California, San Diego, since 1993
 Ken Kennedy, a Rice University computer scientist whose software design work paved the way for the broad scientific and engineering use of modern supercomputers, died Wednesday in Houston. He was 61. The cause was complications of pancreatic cancer, said Jade Boyd, a spokesman for t
 Max Lanier, a leading left-handed pitcher of the early 1940s with the St. Louis Cardinals who was later barred from organized baseball for jumping to the Mexican League, prompting him to challenge baseball's reserve clause in federal court, died Jan. 30 in Dunellon, Fla. He was 91. 
 Nelson W. Polsby, who marshaled intellectual rigor, lucid writing and a knack for drawing striking lessons from real-life observation in his enduring studies of Congress and the presidency, died on Tuesday at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 72. The cause was complications of con
 Hank Bauer, a bruising pipe fitter and decorated combat veteran who became an All-Star outfielder for the Yankees, playing in nine World Series, and who later managed the Baltimore Orioles to a stunning Series victory, died yesterday in Shawnee Mission, Kan. He was 84. The cause was
 Ian Richardson, the Scottish film, television and stage actor who was a major figure at the Royal Shakespeare Company before gaining international fame for his television portrayal of a deliciously villainous politician, died yesterday at his home in London. He was 72. His agent, Je
 George Sadek, a former dean of the Cooper Union School of Art in Manhattan and founder of its Center for Design and Typography, who transformed graphic design education by having students work on actual projects for nonprofit institutions, died on Monday at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was
 Michael Hurson, a New York-based artist whose drawings and paintings imbued human and inanimate subjects alike with a stylish caricatural energy, died on Jan. 29 in Nyack, N.Y.. He was 65 and lived in Garnerville, N.Y. He died of a heart attack hours after entering Nyack Hospital co
 Edmund C. Arnold, a journalist who in the 1950s altered the rigid layouts then common in American newspapers and introduced lively typography, influencing a generation of newspaper designers, died on Feb. 2 in Salem, Va. He was 93 and lived in Roanoke, Va. The cause was respiratory 
 Fred Mustard Stewart, a best-selling writer of popular novels, several of which were adapted for the screen, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 74 and also lived in Washington, Conn. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Joan Stewart. Originally trained as a c
 Dr. Leonard Berg, a neurologist and top medical administrator at Washington University in St. Louis who helped design a leading test used to assess social functioning in patients with Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia, died on Jan. 15 in that city. He was 79. The cause
 Michael Shurtleff, for years a leading Broadway casting director and the author of an influential book about the audition process, died on Jan. 28 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 86. His death came after a series of health problems, including lung cancer, said Vance Walker, a lon
 Roger Bacon, a physicist and materials scientist whose enterprising studies of graphite and carbon fibers contributed to a revolution in the heat-resistant materials used in aircraft and satellites, died on Jan. 26 in Oberlin, Ohio. He was 80. The cause was leukemia, his family said
 Eddie Feigner, who for 60 years barnstormed the globe with his four-man softball team, hurling 100-mile-an-hour pitches that struck out Willie Mays and 141,516 other batters, died on Friday in Huntsville, Ala. He was 81. Last summer, Feigner (pronounced FAY-ner) sometimes rose from 
 Dr. Ivan Boszormenyi-Nagy, a psychiatrist who helped establish a powerful therapy for mental illness that brings patients' extended families into treatment as allies, died Jan. 28 at his home in Glenside, Pa. He was 86. The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, said his wi
 Nat H. Hentel, a former State Supreme Court justice and an interim Queens district attorney in 1966, died Jan. 31 at his home in Tucson. He was 87. The cause was Parkinson's disease, said his wife, Diana Klebanow Hentel. Mr. Hentel was appointed interim district attorney by 
 Bent Skovmand, a plant scientist who helped to create the ''doomsday vault,'' a massively fortified cavern to safeguard three million kinds of unique crop seeds against catastrophe, died Tuesday in Kavlinge, Sweden. He was 61. His wife, Eugenia, announced his death, The Associated P
 Henry Clay Frick II, a physician, professor of medicine and former president of the board of the Frick Collection, the art museum in his family's stately former home on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan, died on Friday at his home in Alpine, N.J. He was 87. The death was confirmed by his da
 Thomas E. Fairchild, a federal appeals court judge for four decades who tried unsuccessfully to unseat Senator Joseph McCarthy in 1952, died on Monday in Madison, Wis. He was 94. His death, at an assisted living facility, was announced by a grandson, Thomas Chase. Judge Fair
 Bruce M. Metzger, an eminent scholar and translator of the Bible who oversaw the publication of a widely used modern edition that eliminated all the thees and thous and many of the hes, died on Tuesday in Princeton, N.J. He was 93 and a longtime Princeton resident. The cause was res
 Mordkhe Schaechter, a leading Yiddish linguist who spent a lifetime studying, standardizing and teaching the language, died yesterday in the Bronx. He was 79 and lived in Yonkers. His death, at Montefiore Medical Center, followed a long illness, his daughter Rukhl Schaechter said.  
 Walter Sondheim Jr., a longtime Baltimore civic leader who played crucial roles in desegregating the city's schools and redeveloping its downtown, died yesterday in Baltimore. He was 98. The cause was pneumonia, said Dan Collins, a spokesman for Mercy Medical Center. Mr. Son
 Gordon Wright, a conductor who championed obscure composers and made music across the chilly climes of Alaska as founder of the Arctic Chamber Orchestra, was found dead on Wednesday on the porch of his cabin in Indian, Alaska. He was 72. His body was discovered after he failed to ar
 Ralph Penza, an award-winning television news reporter and backup anchor for WNBC-TV in New York City, died early yesterday morning after a long illness, a spokeswoman for NBC said. Mr. Penza was 74 and lived in Manhattan. His death was announced yesterday by NBC. Mr. Penza,
 Ray Evans, a pop lyricist who teamed up with the composer and lyricist Jay Livingston to write three Academy Award-winning songs and one of Nat King Cole's best-known classics, as well as the Christmas standard ''Silver Bells,'' died on Thursday in Los Angeles. He was 92. Jim Steinb
 Ian Stevenson, an academic psychiatrist who 45 years ago abandoned Freud as too unscientific and turned to the paranormal as a tool with which to plumb the human psyche, died on Feb. 8 in Charlottesville, Va. He was 88 and had lived in Charlottesville for many years. The cause was p
 Maurice Papon, a prominent French functionary convicted in 1998 of complicity in Nazi crimes against humanity during the German occupation in World War II, died yesterday at a private clinic near Paris. He was 96. He underwent heart surgery related to his pacemaker on Tuesday, and d
 Ralph Penza, an award-winning television news reporter and anchor for WNBC-TV in New York City, died early Friday after a long illness, a spokeswoman for NBC said. Mr. Penza was 74 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Penza, a senior correspondent for WNBC-TV, was best known for his aggressi
 Steven Pimlott, a British theater and opera director best known in the United States for his productions of ''Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat'' and ''Bombay Dreams,'' died Wednesday at his home near Colchester in Essex, England. He was 53. The cause was lung cancer, sai
 Maurice Papon, a prominent French functionary convicted in 1998 of complicity in Nazi crimes against humanity during the German occupation in World War II, died Saturday at a private clinic near Paris. He was 96. He underwent heart surgery related to his pacemaker on Tuesday, and di
 Sheridan Morley, the prominent British critic, biographer and broadcaster who devoted his career to chronicling and, often, celebrating plays and players, died on Friday at his home in London. He was 65. The cause has not yet been determined, but his death was widely reported in the
 Dr. Aaron B. Lerner, a Yale dermatologist and the leader of a team of researchers who discovered melatonin, a powerful hormone regulating human sleep-wake cycles, died on Feb. 3 in New Haven. He was 86. The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, his family said. In 
 Charles Langford, a civil rights lawyer whose best-known client was a Montgomery, Ala., seamstress named Rosa Parks, died on Feb. 11 at his home in Montgomery. He was 84. Mr. Langford died in his sleep, his niece Audrey Anderson told The Associated Press. A Democrat, Mr. Langford wa
 Joseph Low, an illustrator who did absurdist covers for The New Yorker and won Caldecott honors for the children's book ''Mice Twice,'' died on Feb. 12 at his home in Edgartown, Mass., on Martha's Vineyard. He was 95. He died in his sleep of natural causes, said his daughter Damaris
 Robert Adler, a physicist and prolific inventor best known as the co-inventor of the television remote control device, died Feb. 15 in Boise, Idaho. He was 93. The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Ingrid Adler. Dr. Adler, who held nearly 200 United States patents, wor
 Elliott Baker, a screenwriter and novelist whose first book, ''A Fine Madness,'' was made into a Hollywood film starring Sean Connery, died on Feb. 9 in Los Angeles. He was 84 and had lived in Los Angeles for many years. The cause was cancer, his niece Lee Moskof said. A dar
 Siegfried Landau, the founding conductor of what is now called the Brooklyn Philharmonic Orchestra, died on Monday night, along with his wife, Irene Gabriel, in a fire at their home in Brushton, in northern New York State. Mr. Landau was 85. His wife, a former ballet dancer, was 70.        
 Dr. Campbell Moses, an internist and a former medical director of the American Heart Association who in the 1950s and '60s made innovative educational television programs intended for fellow physicians, died on Feb. 11 in Upper Saddle River, N.J. He was 89. The cause was a thoracic 
 John W. Lederle, who as president of the University of Massachusetts in the 1960s led the transformation of a rural campus with fewer than 6,000 students in Amherst into a major research center with more than 18,000 students and who also directed the development of two campuses, died on Feb
 Dennis Johnson, a brilliant defensive player who helped propel the Seattle SuperSonics and the Boston Celtics to N.B.A. championships, died yesterday in Austin, Tex. He was 52. The cause was a heart attack, the National Basketball Association said. Johnson, a five-time All-S
 Dr. David B. Ast, a dentist and public health official who led an effort to begin fluoridating the water supply in New York State in the 1940s and helped prove its safety and effectiveness in preventing tooth decay, died on Feb. 3 in Laguna Hills, Calif. He was 104. The cause was he
 Joseph E. Gallo, the California cheese maker who battled his winemaking brothers over the use of the family name, died Saturday at his home in Livingston, Calif. He was 87. The cause was complications of a series of strokes, said his son, Michael, the chief executive of Joseph Gallo
 David Berger, a lawyer who achieved fame, fortune and influence by helping to expand the ability of groups of people to file suits jointly in federal courts, died on Thursday in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 94. The cause was complications of pneumonia, his family said in a statement.    
 Richard Lehman, a high-ranking Central Intelligence Agency analyst who, on orders from a perturbed President John F. Kennedy, developed the succinct intelligence summary that has been handed to presidents each morning for 45 years, died last Saturday near his home in Concord, N.H. He was 83
 Ronald Hilton, an influential scholar on Latin America who played a role in uncovering secret preparations for Cuban exiles' invasion at the Bay of Pigs, died Tuesday at his home on the Stanford University campus, in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 95. The death was announced on the Web si
 Sheldon K. Friedlander, whose research helped identify the various pollutants in smog and quantify them by source, died on Feb. 9 at his home in the Pacific Palisades section of Los Angeles. He was 79. The cause was complications of pulmonary fibrosis, his family said. Dr. F
 Burt Beagle, an accountant who never met a sports statistic he did not love, a passion that put him on the sidelines of New York City high school and college sporting events for many years, died Monday in the Bronx. He was 73. The cause was complications of lung cancer, a longtime f
 Hasan Ozbekhan, a Turkish-born economist and management expert who helped found the Club of Rome, a group of thinkers who came together to examine unwieldy global problems like food shortages and overpopulation, died on Feb. 12 in Philadelphia. He was 86. The cause was a pulmonary e
 Lamar Lundy, a longtime defensive end for the Los Angeles Rams who in the 1960s was part of the Fearsome Foursome, one of the National Football League's most renowned defensive lines, died Saturday in Richmond, Ind. He was 71. Lundy's death was announced by the Community Family Fune
 The violinist and composer Leroy Jenkins, one of the pre-eminent musicians of 1970s free jazz, who worked on and around the lines between jazz and classical music, died on Friday in Manhattan. He was 74 and lived in Brooklyn. The cause was complications of lung cancer, said his wife
 Alan D. Eames, who cultivated his reputation as ''the Indiana Jones of beer'' by crawling into Egyptian tombs to read hieroglyphics about beer and voyaging along the Amazon in search of a mysterious lost black brew, died on Feb. 10 at his home in Dummerston, Vt. He was 59. His wife,
 Heinz Berggruen, a German-born Jewish art collector who in the mid-1990's made a powerful gesture of reconciliation by moving his modern art collection to Berlin, died outside Paris on Friday. He was 93. Mr. Berggruen's death was announced by Anne Baldassari, director of the Picasso
 Will Maslow, a former executive director of the American Jewish Congress who fought discrimination against African-Americans as well as Jews, particularly in employment and education, died Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 99. The death was confirmed by his daughter Laura Masl
 Covey T. Oliver, a former assistant secretary of state, ambassador to Colombia and a professor of international law, died Thursday at his home near Easton, Md. He was 93. The death was confirmed by his son Jefferson. Mr. Oliver was ambassador to Colombia from 1964 to 1966 an
 Frank M. Snowden Jr., a historian who was a leading authority on the lives of black people in the ancient world, died on Feb. 18 in Washington. He was 95 and had lived in Washington for many years. The cause was congestive heart failure, his son, Frank M. Snowden III, said. 
