 Bob Woolf, the pioneering Boston-based sports lawyer who used what he called friendly persuasion to negotiate headline contracts for some of the nation's most famous athletes and entertainers, died on Monday night at a home he maintained in Hallandale, Fla. He was 65. "He was watchi
 Daniel H. Majeske, the concertmaster of the Cleveland Orchestra since 1969, died on Sunday at his home in Euclid, Ohio. He was 61. The cause was prostate cancer, said NancyBell Coe, the orchestra's manager. Mr. Majeske was born in Detroit in 1932 and made his orchestral debu
 David Fisch, a decorative-arts painter and muralist, died on Friday, at his home in Manhattan. He was 43. The cause was AIDS, said Nancy Blechman, a friend. Mr. Fisch was born in Brooklyn and attended the University of Chicago. From 1978 to 1991, he was commissioned to work 
 Harry T. Whitin, a textile maker and philatelist, died on Nov. 24 at the Evergreen Woods Health Center in North Branford, Conn. He was 76 and lived in Rye, N.Y. The cause was prostate cancer, his family said. Mr. Whitin maintained a tradition of manufacturing and marketing t
 John Smart, a retired New York publisher, philanthropist and former chairman of Esquire Inc., died on Monday at Greenwich Hospital in Connecticut. A resident of Greenwich, he was 88. The cause was complications following a stroke, his family said. In recent years Mr. Smart d
 Marvin H. Bernstein, a businessman and philanthropist in New York for many years, died on Sunday at the Miami Heart Institute. He was 66 and lived in Miami. The cause was bladder cancer, said Richard D. Siegal of New York, a friend and business partner. Mr. Bernstein was the
 Richard DeFabees, an actor who appeared in productions on Broadway and off, died on Nov. 18. He was 46. The cause was AIDS, said Norman Rothstein, a friend. Mr. DeFabees appeared in the original Broadway production of "Torch Song Trilogy," alternating in the lead role, as Ar
 Robert A. Wands, who received worldwide recognition for his photo coverage of events near the end of World War II, died on Friday at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 84. Mr. Wands took the famous photograph of Truman, Churchill and Stalin sitting together at the Potsdam conference 
 Sunil K. Roy, a retired Indian diplomat and former Consul General in New York, died Monday in New Delhi. He was 73. The cause was prostate cancer, said a friend, David Challinor of Washington. During the 1960's and 70's Mr. Roy served India in a variety of international post
 William Kivlan, an investor and investment consultant to the transportation industry, died on Monday at New York Hospital. He was 59 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications after recent heart bypass surgery, his family said. A native of Manhattan, Mr. Kivlan atte
 Dr. Harry J. Johnson, a Manhattan physician who believed that sensible habits and a positive attitude led to a healthy life, died on Saturday at his Park Avenue apartment. He was 91. The cause was heart failure, said his son Michael. Dr. Johnson was an expert in the field of
 The Rev. John A. St. George, a Jesuit who helped develop FM radio in New York City and more recently was an executive at the Jesuit-run Vatican Radio outside Rome, died on Friday in Evanston, Ill. He was 73. The Chicago Province of the Society of Jesus said that since undergoing can
 Raymond Jacobs, a drama therapist and administrator of the AIDS professional program at the Young Adult Institute in Manhattan, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 45. He died of causes related to AIDS nine years after he was found to be H.I.V.-positive, his family said
 Arthur Lodge, a longtime executive in television and radio news broadcasting, died on Sunday in Marietta, Ga. He was 75. The cause was a heart attack, said his daughter, Margaret Bailey, with whom he lived. In 1949 Mr. Lodge helped organize NBC television news and special ev
 Gregory L. Broyles, a leader in the fight against AIDS among black, Hispanic and Asian New Yorkers, died on Tuesday at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 43 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was pneumonia, said Michael Tate, a friend. Mr. Broyles was the director of
 Herman E. Cooper, a Manhattan lawyer for more than 40 years, died yesterday at his Manhattan apartment. He was 88. The cause was kidney failure, said his son, Thomas J. Cooper. Starting in the 1930's and continuing into the 1970's, Mr. Cooper was a labor lawyer who was invol
 Leo Paquin, one of the nine Seven Blocks of Granite who made Fordham's front line into a formidable football force in 1936 and 1937, died yesterday at his home in Rutherford, N.J. He was 83 years old. His wife, Elsie, who could give no cause of death, said her husband died in his sl
 Steele L. Winterer, a retired New York carpet manufacturer, died on Sunday at the Moorings Park Health Center in Naples, Fla. He was 88. The cause was complications after a stroke, said his son, Philip S. Winterer. Mr. Winterer was the president and chief executive officer o
 Ichiro Isoda, once one of Japan's most powerful bankers, died yesterday at a hospital in Osaka. He was 80. News reports said he had had a heart ailment. Mr. Isoda resigned three years ago as chairman of the Sumitomo Bank after it became embroiled in a financial scandal that 
 Dr. Lewis Thomas, the poet-philosopher of medicine who was president of the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center and dean of the medical schools at New York University and Yale, died yesterday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 80. The cause was Waldenstrom's disease, a con
 Mohammed Kasrawi, office manager for the Beirut bureau of The New York Times for 35 years, died Thursday night at American University of Beirut hospital. He was 67. The cause was complications from leukemia, doctors said. Mr. Kasrawi, who was born in Jerusalem, went to Leban
 The Rev. Gabriel Abdelsayed of Jericho, L.I., the archpriest of the Coptic Orthodox Church of St. Mark in Jersey City, died on Thursday at the Methodist Hospital in Brooklyn. He was 66. The cause of death was a heart attack, said his daughter, Wafaa Abdelsayed. Born in Egypt
 Lloyd B. Gottlieb, a specialist in corporate-commercial law and real-estate law, died on Nov. 24 at his home in Manhattan. He was 58. His family said he had had a brief flu-like illness. Mr. Gottlieb was a founding partner of the law firm of Opton Handler Gottlieb Feiler Lan
 Gen. Cortlandt Van Rensselaer Schuyler, who was a senior officer in the military arm of NATO and New York State's first Commissioner of General Services, died on Saturday at his home in San Antonio. He was 92. The cause was cancer, his family said. General Schuyler was appoi
 Frank Zappa, a composer, guitarist, band leader and producer who was rock's most committed iconoclast, died Saturday evening at his home in Los Angeles. He was 52 years old. The cause was prostate cancer, The Associated Press reported. Mr. Zappa was a quintessential 20th-cen
 Herminio Traviesas, an NBC censor between 1969 and 1979, died Friday in the John F. Kennedy Hospital in Atlantis, Fla. He was 79. The cause of death was a stroke, said a friend, William Mehlich. Mr. Traviesas was named NBC's vice president of broadcast standards in 1969 and 
 John A. Thomas, a former Manhattan advertising executive, died Nov. 23 in his home in San Jose, Calif. He was 85. The cause of death was a heart attack, said Judith Naughton, his daughter. Mr. Thomas retired in 1967 after spending 30 years on Madison Avenue with Batten, Barton, Durs
 Dr. John Wildeman, a criminologist and professor of sociology at Hofstra University, died on Thursday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 56 and lived in Hempstead, L.I. The cause was chronic liver disease, the university said. Dr. Wildeman was an expert on criminology and devia
 Dr. Roy N. Barnett, a pathologist associated with Norwalk Hospital, Yale University School of Medicine and, most recently, Mount Sinai Medical Center, died on Friday at the Carolton Convalescent Home in Fairfield, Conn. He was 79 and lived in Westport. He had a long illness after a 
 Francis M. Ellis, a former managing partner of the Manhattan-based law firm of Carter, Ledyard & Milburn who did legal work for the American Express Company, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 70. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, the former Marilyn Martin.
 Frank Zappa, a composer, guitarist, band leader and producer who was rock's most committed iconoclast, died Saturday evening at his home in Los Angeles. He was 52 years old. The cause was prostate cancer, The Associated Press reported. Mr. Zappa was a quintessential 20th-cen
 Harry Rubenstein, the general director of the Joyce Trisler Danscompany, died on Wednesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 69 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said Regina Larkin, the artistic director of Danscompany. Mr. Rubenstein
 Paul Walker, a director, actor and teacher of drama at New York University, died on Sunday at New York Downtown Hospital. He was 41 and lived in Manhattan. He died of AIDS, said Eve Ensler, a friend. Mr. Walker, an instructor in theater technique in the graduate acting progr
 William J. Block, a retired Manhattan lawyer who specialized in product liability, died on Nov. 17 at the Martha's Vineyard Hospital in Oak Bluffs, Mass. He was 89. The cause was prostate cancer, said his son, Noah Block of Manhattan. In his youth Mr. Block was a competitive
 Alvin B. Boxer, founder of the Canadian branch of Hasbro Inc., one of the world's biggest toy makers, died on Sunday at St. Vincent's Hospital in New York. He was 86 and had homes in Montreal, Manhattan and Fort Lauderdale, Fla. The cause was pneumonia, his family said. Mr. 
 Don Ameche, who was one of Hollywood's busiest and most versatile stars in the 1930's and 40's and who saw his fame triumphantly rekindled when he won an Oscar for his work in the comedy "Cocoon" in 1985, died on Monday at the home of his son, Don Jr., in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 85.       
 Dr. Jerome A. Marks, a retired gastroenterologist and associate professor of clinical medicine at New York University Medical Center, died at his home in Manhattan on Sunday. He was 94. Dr. Marks was born in New York City. He graduated from Columbia College in 1921 and from the Coll
 President Felix Houphouet-Boigny of the Ivory Coast, Africa's oldest and longest-serving head of state and one of the last of a generation of African leaders to guide his people from colonalism, died yesterday. He was officially said to be 88 years old, but was widely believed to be much ol
 Leon M. Block, the retired president of Dunhill Tailors, died last Wednesday at his residence in the Ritz Tower Hotel. He was 83. The cause was complications of pneumonia, said Rainer Greeven, a friend. Co-founded by Mr. Block's father, William Block, Dunhill opened in 1923 
 Lewis D. Gilbert, an advocate of shareowner rights and one of the first gadflies to speak out at annual meetings on behalf of small stockholders, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 86 and lived in Manhattan. The cause of death was a heart ailment, said his brother, John J
 Nicholas Kounovsky, a physical-fitness teacher who introduced European-style gymnastics to Americans and others, died on Friday at the Tolstoy Center in Valley Cottage, N.Y. He was 80 and lived in Glen Cove, L.I. Born to Russian parents in Odessa, Mr. Kounovsky arrived in New York i
 Robert Taft Jr., a former United States Representative and Senator who was the grandson of a President and the son of a Presidential contender, died on Monday at Jewish Hospital in Cincinnati. He was 76. The Cincinnati Enquirer said he had a stroke on Nov. 29. Mr. Taft, a sc
 Waclaw Jedrzejewicz, a Polish emigre and historian, died Nov. 30 at the Cheshire Convalescent Center in Cheshire, Conn. He was 100. Mr. Jedrzejewicz was a prolific author of books and articles on Polish history between the two World Wars. During that time he served in a series of mi
 Yevgeny I. Gabrilovich, a renowned scenarist of Soviet cinema, died in a Moscow hospital on Monday. He was 94. Mr. Gabrilovich was best known in Russia for his scripts for "The Last Night" (1937), "Mashenka" (1942), "The Dream" (1943), co-written with Mikhail Romm and especially "Co
 Anthony J. Travia Sr., a former Speaker of the New York State Assembly and a retired United States District Court judge, died on Tuesday at Vassar Brothers Hospital in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. He was 82. Mr. Travia was a Democrat who represented Brooklyn in the Assembly beginning in 1944 
 Bogdan Raditsa, a Croatian writer, former Yugoslav diplomat and professor emeritus at Fairleigh Dickinson University, died on Sunday in St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 89. For 15 years starting in 1928 Mr. Raditsa was an official of the Yugoslav foreign ser
 Dr. Wolfgang Paul, who won the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1989 for his work in isolating ions and electrons and led Germany's prestigious Alexander von Humboldt Foundation for 10 years, died Monday night at his home here. He was 80. The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Doris. 
 Eugene B. Power, a pioneer in the use of microfilm for the storage and reproduction of scholarly information, died on Monday at his home in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 88. He had Parkinson's disease, said Bernie DeGroat, a spokesman for the University of Michigan. During World W
 Robert A. Siegel, a Manhattan stamp dealer who auctioned off some of the world's rarest and costliest stamps, died on Friday at New York Hospital. He was 80 and had homes in Manhattan and Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He had a stroke while walking to his Park Avenue business the previous Tu
 Samuel Preston Brown, a retired senior partner and chairman of the consulting engineering firm of Coverdale & Colpitts Inc. in New York, died on Monday at the South Port Nursing Center in Port Charlotte, Fla. He was 80 and moved to Port Charlotte from Short Hills, N.J., three years ago.    
 Sterling B. Jensen, an actor and mime who helped found the Roundabout Theater, died yesterday in the Touro Infirmary in New Orleans. He was 68 and lived in New Orleans. The cause was congestive heart failure, said his wife, Esther Ewing Jensen. Mr. Jensen was born in San Die
 Anthony J. Travia Sr., who served as Speaker of the New York State Assembly from 1965 to 1968, died on Tuesday at Vassar Brothers Hospital in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. He was 82. Mr. Travia was a Democrat from the East New York section of Brooklyn. He was first elected to the Assembly in 1
 Frederick D. Forsch, a retired New York investment banker who amassed one of the best collections of Churchill memorabilia outside official British and American archives, died last Friday at the Amsterdam Nursing Home in Manhattan. A resident of Manhattan, he was 78. The cause was c
 George W. Dean Jr., a civil rights lawyer who argued a case that forced Alabama to revamp its mental-health system and influenced similar changes in other states, died on Tuesday at his home in Chestertown, Md. He was 64. The apparent cause was a heart attack, his family said.      
 Jacob Brown, an administrator of Columbia University's School of General Studies, died on Tuesday at the Long Island College Hospital in Brooklyn. He was 43. The cause was an AIDS-related illness, said Frank Wolf, associate dean of the School of General Studies. Before he to
 Robert Buchanan Mitchell, emeritus Professor of City and Regional Planning at the University of Pennsylvania, died on Nov. 29 in Philadelphia, where he lived. He was 87. The cause was thought to have been a massive heart attack, the university said. As a noted urban planner 
 William Z. Schanz, co-founder and head of Regency Cruises, died on Wednesday at Bellevue Hospital Center. He was 70. Mr. Schanz had a stroke while working in his Manhattan office, said his wife, Olga. Regency operates a six-ship fleet. Mr. Schanz entered the tour business on
 Dr. Cranston W. Holman, a retired thoracic surgeon who was one of the nation's leading tennis players in the 1920's, died yesterday at New York Hospital, where he helped perform one of the first heart-lung transplants in 1969. He was 86. His daughter, Martha Paul, said he died of in
 Dr. John H. Menkart, a retired senior vice president of Clairol Inc., died on Thursday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 71. The cause was amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, also known as Lou Gehrig's disease, said his wife, Edith Menkart. From 1971 to 1987 Dr. Menkart was 
 James M. Franey, a former movie executive in Manhattan, died on Monday at St. Joseph Villa, a retirement home in Flourtown, Pa. He was 92. From 1946 to 1971, Mr. Franey served first as the head of United World Films, a subsidiary of Universal Pictures, and later as the head of Unive
 Peter Alan Gloo, a pianist and singer of popular music at Manhattan nightclubs for a decade, died on Dec. 3 at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center of New York. He was 37. The cause was AIDS, said his mother, Joan Gloo, of Mohawk, N.Y. Mr. Gloo, who lived in Manhattan, 
 Philip G. Steiner, an entrepreneur who helped develop and market innovative toys, died on Nov. 24 at his home in Hyde Park, Ohio. He was 92. Mr. Steiner, with his brothers, Joseph and Albert, founded Kenner Products in Cincinnati in 1946. Originally a soap and flavoring concern, the
 S. Fraser Sammis, who retired in June as the president of the National Cargo Bureau in Manhattan, died on Wednesday at Huntington Hospital in Huntington, L.I. He was 65. The cause was cancer, said his companion, Barbara Fritz. Mr. Sammis lived in Huntington. During his 30 ye
 Dr. Francis A. Gagliardi of Jamaica, Queens, the former director of psychiatry at Baptist Medical Center in Brooklyn, died Tuesday at Mary Immaculate Hospital in Jamaica. He was 78. The cause was a heart attack, said Alessandra Gagliardi, a daughter. A pioneer in the use of 
 Howard R. Suslak, a Manhattan investment banker who was the president of MacDonald & Company, one of the country's oldest corporate merger specialists, died on Friday at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital. He was 73. The cause was colon cancer, said his wife, Lillian. Mr. Suslak
 Grand Ayatollah Mohammed Riza Golpaygani, an Iranian cleric who was a senior religious figure for Shiite Muslims, died Thursday in a hospital in Teheran. He was in his late 90's and was prominent in Islamic learning for decades in Qum, the Shiite religious center 75 miles southwest of Teher
 Donald G. Agger, a lawyer active on international aviation issues, died today at his home here. He was 64. The cause was cancer, said Arthur Mason, a family friend. Mr. Agger was a United States representative to NATO for four years in the 1950's before becoming president of
 Jozsef Antall, the Hungarian Prime Minister, died today in Budapest. He was the longest-ruling leader of post-Communist Eastern Europe and probably the most conservative. Mr. Antall, 61, was hospitalized in Budapest last month with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, a form of cancer of the lym
 Patrick Kelly, a dancer and writer, died at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan on Friday. He was 40 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was AIDS, said his companion, Richard Dworkin. Born in Portland, Ore., where he began his dance training and received a degree in nursing fr
 Samuel M. Stayman, whose name is known to millions of bridge players throughout the world because of the Stayman Convention, a form of inquiry in bidding, died on Saturday at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 84. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Josephine. Mr. Stayman 
 Alastair A. Stair, a leading dealer in English antique furniture, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 80. The cause was complications from Parkinson's disease, said his son, A. John. Stair & Company was founded in 1912 in London as Stair & Andrews by Alastair Sta
 Rear Adm. Joseph W. Fowler, a master builder of warships and Disney theme parks, died on Dec. 3 at his home in Orlando, Fla. He was 99 and also had a home in Brooksville, Me. Admiral Fowler was the oldest living graduate of the United States Naval Academy and the oldest living retir
 Roy E. LaGrone, a retired art director and illustrator who flew with the Tuskegee airmen in World War II, died on Wednesday at his home in Somerset, N.J. He was 72. The cause of death was a heart attack, his family said. Mr. LaGrone discovered his love for flying as a teen-a
 Steve Nelson, the defendant in a case that led to a Supreme Court ruling in 1956 that invalidated state sedition laws, died on Saturday at Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. Mr. Nelson, who was a member of the Communist Party at the time of the ruling, was 90 and lived in Truro, Mass.     
 Dr. David Shainberg, a Manhattan psychoanalyst, died on Dec. 5 at Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 61 and had homes in Manhattan and Wellfleet, Mass. The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, his family said. Dr. Shainberg was a native of Memphis and a graduate of Columbia College
 Dr. Samuel Wolfe, professor emeritus at Columbia University's School of Public Health, an early advocate of Canada's national health insurance plan, and a proponent of better access to medical care for the poor, died last Friday in Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 70. His 
 Edwin A. Schoenborn, a retired New York banker, died on Saturday at his home in Somers, N.Y. He was 76 and formerly lived in Thornwood, N.Y. He had had a long illness, his family said. Mr. Schoenborn was a native of New York City and graduated cum laude from New York Univers
 Jeremiah Sullivan, a theater and television actor and a professional astrologer, died on Sunday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 58 and lived in New York City. The cause was AIDS, said a friend, Joe Regan. Mr. Sullivan received the Clarence Derwent Award in 197
 Dr. Kenneth Scott, a scholar of New York and American genealogy, died on Saturday at a nursing home in Maryland. He was 93 and lived in Douglaston, Queens. He had pneumonia, his family said. Dr. Scott was professor emeritus of history at Queens College of the City University
 Rabbi Stanley Witty, an educator and religious leader who was a principal of Hebrew and public schools in the New York City region for more than 37 years, died on Monday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 62 and lived in Kew Garden Hills, Queens. His family said the cause was can
 Robert F. Lewine, who worked as a vice president for programming at all three national television networks, died on Monday at his home in Beverly Hills. He was 80. The cause was a respiratory condition, said an announcement by the Academy of Television Arts and Sciences in North Hol
 Frederick L. Zimmerman, a political science teacher at Hunter College for more than 30 years, died on Tuesday at the Highgate Manor Nursing Home in Troy, N.Y. He was 87. He had a long illness, said his son, Lloyd K. Zimmerman of Coxsackie, N.Y. Mr. Zimmerman graduated from C
 Harmon Duncombe, a partner in general practice at the Manhattan law firm of Fulton, Duncombe & Rowe for the last 47 years, died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 84 and a Manhattan resident. The cause of death was cancer, the firm said. Mr. Duncombe was born in Bogo
 Mr. Tanaka was until his convicton Japan's most potent political figure by virtue of his role as leader of the most powerful faction in the dominant Liberal Democratic Party, a conservative group that has dominated Japanese politics for decades. In 1983, Mr. Tanaka, a shrewd politic
 Leighton Allyn Wilkie, founder of the international DoAll Group of companies that make and distribute machine tools and other industrial equipment, died on Monday at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 93. He had a brief illness, said a spokesman for DoAll, of Des Plaines, Ill.
 Rabbi Maurice Davis, the retired senior rabbi of the Jewish Community Center of White Plains and an authority on religious cults in the United States, died Tuesday at his home in Palm Coast, Fla. He was 72. The cause of death was complications from a stroke, said Jane Friedberg of t
 Bill Robinson, an innovative men's fashion designer who was known for his pioneering soft-shouldered jackets with slim waists, arresting combinations of just-off colors, and zippers going up the fronts of his vests, died yesterday at his home in Greenwich Village. Besides his Manhattan home
 Charles Moore, whose exuberant and eclectic architecture made him one of the most influential and prolific practitioners of post-modern design, died yesterday at his home in Austin, Tex. He was 68. The cause was a heart attack, his office said. A leading figure in American a
 Gordon C. Griswold Sr., who rose from a cadet engineer to board chairman in his 42 years at the Brooklyn Union Gas Company, died on Tuesday at a retirement community in Kalamazoo, Mich. He was 83 and had moved there from Westfield, N.J., in 1987. The cause of death was congestive he
 Kakuei Tanaka, a gravel-voiced politician who dominated Japanese politics for two decades, even after being convicted of accepting a multibillion-dollar bribe from the Lockheed Corporation, died today after a long illness. He was 75. Doctors at the Keio University Hospital here, whe
 Mortimer Goodman, a retired lawyer who was long active in Jewish causes in New York, died on Wednesday. He was 83 and lived in Queens. He had a heart attack near his home in Flushing, his family said. A native of Manhattan, Mr. Goodman graduated from New York University and 
 Ratu Sir Penaia Ganilau, President of Fiji, died on Wednesday at the Walter Reed Medical Center in Washington. He was 75. He had been treated for leukemia and died of a blood disorder, said Peter Halder, a presidential aide. Ratu Sir Penaia was flown to Washington three week
 Dr. James B. Townsend, a retired professor of English literature at the State University of New York at Buffalo, died on Monday at his home in Buffalo. He was 75. The cause was cancer, said his daughter, Clarissa Townsend. Dr. Townsend began teaching at the State University 
 Tommy Wonder, a principal dancer in the "Ziegfeld Follies of 1943," died last Saturday at Cabrini Medical Center. He was 78 and lived in Riverdale, the Bronx. The cause was heart failure, said his business partner, Don Dellair. A native of Montana, Mr. Wonder grew up in Cali
 Robert A. Pfeiffer, a broadcast performer, producer and journalist in Manhattan and Western Europe for 35 years, died on Friday at Sloan-Kettering Memorial Hospital. He was 72. He died of a disease of the bone marrow, his wife, Melody Pfeiffer, said. During his career Mr. Pf
 Robert W. Cutler, who practiced architecture in Manhattan for more than 40 years and was a partner in the firm of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, died on Friday in the Heartland Nursing Center in Temple, Tex. He was 88. He died of complications following a stroke, said his wife, Morene 
 Sam Wanamaker, the American actor-director who campaigned to rebuild Shakespeare's Globe Theater on the banks of the Thames, died yesterday at his home in London. He was 74 years old. He had suffered from cancer for five years, his family told Reuters. Mr. Wanamaker devoted 
 John W. Eckman, former chairman and chief executive of the Rorer Group, the drug and medical products manufacturer, and a director of its successor company, Rhone-Poulenc Rorer, died Friday at Devon Manor Nursing Home in Devon, Pa. He was 74 and lived in Chester County, Pa., and Nantucket, 
 Moses Gunn, an actor whose career of more than three decades included roles ranging from Othello to Booker T. Washington, died on Friday at his home in Guilford, Conn. He was 64. The cause was complications of asthma, said his wife, Gwendolyn. He had been ill since May, she said.   
 Arthur Cort Holden, an architect who also wrote extensively about housing and urban design, died on Saturday at his home in Washington, Conn. He was 103. Mr. Holden, who was born in New York City, held degrees from Princeton University and Columbia University. After Army service dur
 Gregory A. Mancini, a Long Island developer, died on Friday at his home in Dix Hills. He was 47. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Mancini was a partner and vice president in the Park Ridge Organization, which he, his brother, Charles B., and three other par
 Nixon Griffis, a conservationist, trustee of the New York Zoological Society and former owner of Brentano's book stores, died on Friday at Hamot Medical Center in Erie, Pa. He was 76 and lived in Naples, Fla., where he had moved from Manhattan about four years ago. He had had a long
 Richard Dicker, a former chief executive of the Penn Central Corporation, died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived in Scarsdale, N.Y. He had a brief illness, the company reported. Mr. Dicker graduated from the Wharton School at the University
 W. Edwards Deming, an expert on business management who advised Japan on how to rebuild its shattered industries after World War II and urged American corporations to treat their workers as associates rather than adversaries, died early yesterday at his home in Washington. He was 93.       
 C. Corey Mills, an architect and former State Senator from Brooklyn, died on Monday at Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount Kisco, N.Y. He was 84 and lived in Bedford, N.Y. He had had a long illness, his wife said. A native of Brooklyn, Mr. Mills graduated from Poly Prep C
 Joseph H. Ball, who served eight years in the Senate in the 1940's as a maverick Republican crusading for the United Nations and against organized labor, died on Saturday at the Bethesda Nursing and Rehabilitation Center in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 88. He had had a stroke, said a dau
 Raiford Graham Trask Sr., a real estate developer who was a benefactor of the University of North Carolina at Wilmington, died on Sunday night at his home in Wilmington. He was 77. He had had cancer for two years, his family said. Mr. Trask built his career by turning his fa
 William H. Todd 2d, an investment adviser who lived in Rye, N.Y., died yesterday at Greenwich Hospital in Greenwich, Conn. He was 70. The cause was cancer, said Martha Todd, a daughter-in-law. Mr. Todd was a managing director of White Oak Capital Management in Manhattan. He 
 A. H. Raskin, an authority on labor whose articles and editorials ran in The New York Times for more than four decades, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82. The cause of death was cancer, said his wife, Marge. Mr. Raskin served The Times as a reporter, editori
 Alfred E. Munier, an engineer who contributed to the space and nuclear-fusion programs during his 47 years with the Grumman Corporation of Bethpage, L.I., died on Dec. 16 at the Carillon House Nursing Facility in Huntington. He was 78 and had homes in Lloyd Harbor, L.I., and Nantucket, Mass
 Dr. David H. Gillespie, a genetic researcher who advanced the understanding of cancers, AIDS and other diseases, died Sunday in an auto accident near his home in Glenmore, Pa. He was 53. At his death, he was the Barry Ashbee Professor of Basic Research at Hahnemann University in Phi
 Kenneth E. Oberholtzer, an educator who crusaded for the modernization of the nation's public schools, died last Friday at the Kaiser Hospital in Walnut Creek, Calif. He was 89. His family said the cause was pneumonia. Dr. Oberholtzer was superintendent of schools in Long Be
 Alexander Mackendrick, the director of the classic British film comedies "The Ladykillers," "Tight Little Island" and "The Man in the White Suit," died on Wednesday in Los Angeles. He was 81. The cause was pneumonia, said F. X. Feeney, a friend and the film critic of L.A. Weekly.   
 Bob Shepard, a radio and television announcer of a generation ago, died on Dec. 17 on a visit to Manhattan. He was 76 and had homes in Boca Raton, Fla., and Wilmington, Vt. The cause was a heart attack, said his daughter, Carolee Shepard. After graduating from the City Colle
 Dr. Alan O. Ross, a retired psychology professor at the State University of New York at Stony Brook who conducted research on child psychology, behavioral therapy and personality, died on Tuesday at his home in East Setauket, L.I. He was 72. The cause was a brain tumor, said his bro
 Dr. Milton I. Levine, a pediatrician in Manhattan who offered advice on raising children to several generations of parents, died on Wednesday in St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 91. The cause was heart failure, said his grandson, Franz Paasche. Dr. Levine maintained a private 
 George Bronson Farnam, a leader in the Connecticut dairy industry and former state legislator, died on Tuesday at his home in Vero Beach, Fla. He was 80 and lived in Wallingford, Conn., until 1980. He had been ill for a long time, his family said. A native of Cornwall, Conn.
 Dr. Lewis R. Koller, a retired physicist who developed supersensitive photoelectric devices and equipment for the General Electric Company, died yesterday at the Josephine M. Lilly Care Center in Falmouth, Mass. He was 98 and lived in Falmouth and Cambridge, Mass. Dr. Koller was a n
 Robert A. Matthews, who served 25 years as a judge on a series of state courts in New Jersey, died on Wednesday at the Princeton Medical Center in Princeton, N.J. He was 73. The cause was complications after cancer surgery, said his wife, Karen Thompson Matthews. In the 1960
 Gen. Sir Philip Christison, the British commander to whom the Japanese surrendered in Singapore at the end of World War II, died on Tuesday at his farm in Melrose in southern Scotland. He was 100 and the oldest living British general. Much decorated in two world wars, he lived throu
 Darrell Yates Rist, a writer and co-founder of the Gay and Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation, died on Thursday in St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 45 and lived in Manhattan. His companion, Robert M. Cataldo, said he died from an AIDS-related illness. Mr. Rist c
 Dr. Harris L. Friedman, a retired drug researcher and professor of pharmacology at the Medical College of Wisconsin, died on Dec. 12 at his home in Londonderry, N.H. He was 80. The cause was heart failure, said his son, Dr. Neil K. Friedman of Manhattan. Dr. Friedman receive
 Robert V. Roosa, who served as Under Secretary of the Treasury for monetary affairs from 1961 to 1964 and was a retired Wall Street investment banker, died on Thursday at the United Hospital in Port Chester, N.Y. He was 75 and lived in Harrison, N.Y.. The cause was prostate cancer, 
 STUART, Fla., Dec. 24 (AP),-- Zack Mosley, who mixed humor with aviation in his "Smilin' Jack" comic strip, died on Tuesday at Martin Memorial Medical Center here. He was 87. The cause was a heart attack. Inspired by a mail plane that flew over his boyhood home in Oklahoma, 
 The Rev. Dr. Norman Vincent Peale, one of the most influential religious figures of his time, died on Friday afternoon at his estate in Pawling, N.Y. He had suffered a stroke earlier this month. He was 95. His wife of 63 years, Ruth, was at his bedside when he died. Dr. Peal
 Eric Estorick, a dealer in many varieties of modern art and a collector of 20th-century Italian paintings, died on Saturday at his home in London. He was 80. He had been suffering from a heart ailment, said his daughter, Isobel. Mr. Estorick and his wife, Salome, met the Rus
 John P. McCormally, editor of The Hutchinson (Kan.) News when it won a Pulitzer Prize for meritorious public service in 1965, died on Wednesday at his home in Burlington, Iowa. He was 71. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. McCormally, who served in the Kansas Legisla
 Capt. Lawrence A. Renehan, chairman of the Gulf and Eastern Steamship and Chartering Corporation of Houston, died Tuesday at his apartment in Manhattan. He was 68. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Ann. A graduate of the Kings Point Merchant Marine Academy on Long Island,
 Rabbi Norman E. Frimer, a retired administrator of campus organizations for Jewish students in the United States and elsewhere who was also a former Brooklyn College professor, died on Saturday at the Ganei Manhat nursing home in Jerusalem. He was 77 and had lived in retirement in Israel fo
 Dave Beck, one of the most powerful and outspoken labor leaders spanning the middle of this century and the first of a series of teamster presidents to go to prison in the 1960's, died on Sunday in Northwest Hospital in Seattle. He was 99 and lived in Seattle. Mr. Beck was the presi
 Maj. Gen. George W. Hickman Jr., a former Judge Advocate General of the Army, died last Tuesday at his home in Maryville, Tenn. He was 89. He died of cancer, his family said. General Hickman was a native of Calhoun, Ky., and a 1926 graduate of the United States Military Acad
 Jeff Morrow, a stage, film and television actor, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Canoga Park, Calif., after a long illness. He was 86. Mr. Morrow was born in New York City. After serving in the Army during World War II, he played the title role in the "Dick Tracy" radio series. 
 John R. Fernbach, a New York lawyer specializing in theater and intellectual property cases, died on Saturday at Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital. He was 73 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Loretta McCarthy. A native of Manhattan, Mr. Fernbach gradu
 Tibor de Nagy, a courtly Hungarian whose Manhattan art gallery introduced some of the most prominent American artists of the 1950's, died on Saturday at Roosevelt Hospital. He was 85 years old and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer of the stomach, said his daughter, Dr. Marian
 Jack E. Specter, a retired travel publicist in Manhattan and a founder of the American Legion, died on Dec. 20 at the Pasadena Manor Nursing Home in South Pasadena, Fla. He was 95. He died of natural causes, said a grand-nephew, Michael Spekter of Chevy Chase, Md. Mr. Specte
 Lawrence Eckenfelder, a financial-services analyst working in the San Francisco office of Prudential Securities, died on Saturday at his home in Oakland. He was 41 years old. The cause was a heart attack, the company said in New York. Mr. Eckenfelder, a native of Teaneck, N.
 Louis R. W. Soutendijk, a retired Wall Street banker and former financial counselor to the Dutch Embassy in Washington, died on Dec. 21 in Hale Hospital in Haverhill, Mass. He was 83 and had lived in Haverhill since moving from Larchmont, N.Y., about five years ago. The cause was pn
 Michael Callen, a writer and singer who embodied for a dozen years the possibility of long-term survival with AIDS, died of the disease Monday night at Midway Hospital in Los Angeles. He was 38 years old and lived in West Hollywood, Calif. Mr. Callen was the author of "Surviving AID
 Perrine G. (Perry) Rockafellow, a longtime coach of tennis at Colgate University and a national indoor doubles champion in 1928 and 1930, died last Thursday at the Falmouth Nursing Home in Maine. He was 92. Mr. Rockafellow, a 1924 graduate of Colgate, served as coach and professor o
 William L. Shirer, the author of "The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich" and a foreign correspondent whose pioneering live trans-Atlantic radio broadcasts on the eve of World War II helped inform Americans about Nazi Germany, died yesterday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was
 The Rev. Daniel C. Thomas, a retired vice president and past trustee of Princeton Theological Seminary, died on Tuesday at the Princeton Medical Center. He was 73 and lived in Princeton. The cause was prostate cancer, his family said. Starting in the 1940's, Mr. Thomas serve
 Frederick J. Harlfinger 2d, a retired Vice Admiral, died on Tuesday at his home in Sarasota. The Admiral, who was known as Fritz, was 80. The cause was complications from respiratory problems, his family said. Admiral Harlfinger, who was born in Albany, was a 1935 graduate o
 Capt. Giovanni Ruffini, who commanded a series of luxury ocean liners and cruise ships for Home Lines, including its flagship Oceanic for 28 years, died on Sunday at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived in Manhattan. The causes were cancer and complications from 
 Harold Maurice Marks, a retired New York real-estate and construction executive, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 88. He had had a long illness, his family said. A native of Manhattan, Mr. Marks graduated from Cornell University's College of Engineering in 1
 The Rev. Howard Pearson Kellett, a former Massachusetts prison chaplain long active in social causes, died on Saturday in a hospital in York, Me. He was 86. He had a brief illness, his family said. A former resident of Cambridge, Mass., he lived in Kennebunk, Me., in retirem
 J. Wayne Reitz, a former president of the University of Florida, died on Friday at Shands Hospital here. He was 84 and lived in Gainesville. The cause was respiratory failure after a gall bladder infection, his family said. Dr. Reitz was the fifth president of the university
 Juan Gonzalez, a Cuban-born realist painter who taught for nearly two decades at the School of Visual Arts, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 51. The cause was AIDS, said his daughter Maria Schleifman of Manhattan. A creator of meticulously rendered, often sump
 Lauchlin Currie, an economist who helped shape the New Deal during the Administration of Franklin D. Roosevelt, died last Thursday at his home in Bogota, Colombia. He was 91. The cause was a heart attack, said Juan Carlos Guerrero, an associate. Dr. Currie joined the Rooseve
 Dr. Bernard H. Perlman, who practiced medicine in Manhattan for more than 50 years and was a member of the New York City Board of Health from 1978 to 1982, died on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 83. The cause was lung cancer, said his son, Philip K. Perlman. During 
 David Weinstein, a professor of Judaic studies, died on Sunday in Sarasota. He was 66. He had a heart attack while playing tennis with his wife and son, his family said. From 1984 to 1987, Mr. Weinstein was the national director of "A Campaign to Remember," a drive to raise 
 Dr. Arthur Lautkin, a radiologist who practiced medicine in Manhattan for 50 years, died on Monday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 82. The cause was cancer, said a son, Dr. Everett Lautin. A graduate of Columbia College and New York University Medical College, Dr. Lautkin be
 Dr. Hans Steinitz, an editor of the German-language newspaper Aufbau for many years and the former president of the Foreign Press Association in New York, died on Wednesday at the Jewish Home and Hospital for the Aged in the Bronx. He was 81. The cause was a series of strokes, said 
 N. William Pandell, an inventor and former textile executive, died on Monday at his home in Niskayuna, N.Y. He was 70. The cause was cancer, said his daughter, Karen. Mr. Pandell, who held 15 patents including one for measuring textile shrinkage, was an executive of the Sanf
 Rabbi Marshall T. Meyer, an articulate voice of American Jewish liberalism and spiritual leader of Congregation B'nai Jeshurun on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, died on Wednesday at New York Hospital. He was 63 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, his family said.       
 Dr. Sylvan Bloomfield, an expert on glaucoma who practiced ophthalmology in Manhattan for many years until retiring in 1987, died yesterday at his home in Great Neck, L.I. He was 82. The cause was heart disease, said his son, Steven Bloomfield. Dr. Bloomfield was affiliated 
 William R. Martin of Manhattan, who staged commercial shows throughout the country for the electronics and clothing industries, died on Wednesday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Medical Center. He was 59. The cause was lung cancer, said Michael McConkey, a business partner. Mr. Mart
