 Dr. Bernard N. Fields, a leading microbiologist and virologist who strongly influenced the direction of viral research, died yesterday at his home in West Newton, Mass. He was 56. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said officials of Harvard Medical School in Boston, where he was chair
 George F. Abbott, who opened on Broadway in 1913 and didn't close for more than 70 years, died yesterday at his home in Miami Beach, Fla. He was 107 years old. He died of a stroke in his sleep, said his wife, Joy, who was at his side. "He died a beautiful death," she said in a telep
 Gerald M. Durrell, a British conservationist and author who is credited with creating a role for zoos in the preservation of endangered species, died on Monday in a hospital in St. Helier on the island of Jersey in the Channel Islands. He was 70 and lived in the town of Trinity, Jersey.    
 Henry Kraus, the first editor of the United Automobile Workers' national newspaper, a labor historian, an authority on European art and a recipient of a MacArthur Foundation Fellowship, died on Friday in Paris, where he had lived since 1956. He was 89. The cause was cancer, said his
 Homer Kripke, a professor emeritus of law at both New York University and the University of San Diego who was an authority on commercial law, accounting and securities regulation, died last Thursday at the Kearney Mesa Convalescent Hospital in San Diego. He was 83 and lived in San Diego.   
 John H. Livingston, a specialist in wills, trusts and estates who was one of the oldest lawyers still practicing in New York, died on Sunday at his home in Oyster Bay Cove, L.I. He was 89. The cause of death was heart failure, according to his wife and sole survivor, Elisabeth.     
 Joseph Holzka, a banker on Staten Island for more than 50 years and a former head of the United States Savings and Loan League, died on Jan. 17 in the King James Care Center in Navesink, N.J. He was 92 and had lived in Todt Hill, S.I. The cause was heart failure, said his daughter, 
 Lon Chaney, a leading tap-dancer who performed in the musical revue "Black and Blue" and with the Original Hoofers, died yesterday at Bronx Municipal Hospital Center. He was 68 and lived in the Bronx. The cause was injuries from an automobile accident in December, said his sister, E
 Margaret and Walter Wenzel Frese, founders of the Hastings House Publishing Company, died on Jan. 24 from injuries sustained in an automobile accident, their son Alan said. Mrs. Frese was 83 and Mr. Frese, 85. They lived in Stamford, Conn. Mr. Frese was president of the Architectura
 Stanley Barrows, an educator and mentor to generations of New York City's top designers, died yesterday at Naples Community Hospital in Naples, Fla. He was 80. The cause was respiratory failure from complications of pulmonary disease, said Susanna Barrows, Mr. Barrows's niece.      
 Carroll P. Reed, who helped define the style of American skiing through a chain of stores that carried his name and sold skis and ski clothing, died on Sunday at a nursing home near his home in North Conway, N.H. He was 89. While recovering from a ski accident in Jackson, N.H., in 1
 Dr. George Robert Stibitz, whose mathematical calculations and tinkering at the kitchen table led him to invent the first digital computer in 1940, died on Tuesday at his home in Hanover, N.H. He was 90. He had been in declining health for about a year and died of natural causes, sa
 Ferrucio Tagliavini, an Italian lyric tenor who was a favorite of Metropolitan Opera audiences in the late 1940's, died on Saturday at his home in Reggio Emilia, Italy. He was 81. Aldo Mancusi, the curator of the Enrico Caruso Museum in Brooklyn, who was a friend of Mr. Tagliavini's
 Francois Boutin, one of the most renowned horse trainers in Europe, died yesterday at a hospital in Paris, not far from the training center where he developed Arazi and other leading race horses. He was 58. He had been suffering from liver cancer. Boutin was already regarded
 George F. Abbott, who opened on Broadway in 1913 and didn't close for more than 80 years, died on Tuesday at his home in Miami Beach. He was 107. The cause was a stroke, said his wife, Joy. Probably no one in this century brought more verve and excitement to the American sta
 Harrison R. Wesson, a retired surgeon and former president of the Mayo Clinic Alumni Association, died on Sunday at the Cherry Nursing Home in Montclair, N.J. Dr. Wesson, who lived in Montclair for 56 years, was 89. The cause of death was cardiac arrest, said his daughter Sally W. C
 Masahiro Tomonaga, who owned and operated restaurants in New York and Tokyo, died on Sunday at his Manhattan apartment. He was 63 and also had homes in Roxbury, Conn., and Tokyo. The cause was cardiac arrest, said his companion, Clint Wade. Born in Nagasaki, Mr. Tomonaga att
 William Justice Strawbridge, a yachtsman and America's Cup financier who helped organize the Intrepid racing syndicate in 1967, died in his sleep yesterday at his home in Hobe Sound, Fla. He was 83 years old. His wife, Marjorie Flagg Strawbridge, said the apparent cause was heart fa
 Donald Pleasence, the intense, virtuosic actor who was acclaimed in London and on Broadway for his performance in the title role of Harold Pinter's play "The Caretaker," died yesterday at his home in St. Paul de Vence in the south of France. He was 75 and also had a home in London. 
 Fred Perry, the finest male tennis player in Britain's history and the last British man to win the Wimbledon singles title, died yesterday in Melbourne, Australia. He was 85. He had been hospitalized on Sunday after breaking four ribs in a fall at a hotel in Melbourne, where he was 
 Howard Liss, the author of scores of books about sports for adults and children, died on Jan. 15 at his home in Manhattan. He was 72. Mr. Liss, who was born in Brooklyn, worked as a factory hand and a shipping clerk before he made writing his career. He worked as a play doctor in th
 The Rev. Joseph G. Keegan, a Jesuit priest and former chairman of the psychology department at Fordham University, died on Jan. 26 at the Jesuit Infirmary on the university's Rose Hill campus in the Bronx. He was 88. The cause was heart failure, said Brother Gerard Schade, the infir
 W. R. Timken, former chairman of the Timken Company of Canton, Ohio, died on Jan. 26 at Aultman Hospital in Canton, where he lived. He was 84. The cause was heart failure, a company spokeswoman said. Mr. Timken helped build a family business into a multinational manufacturer
 Bradley Ball, a founding member of Act Up, the protest group for people with AIDS, died on Jan. 24 in his home in Manhattan. He was 34. The cause was AIDS, said his companion, Michael Paller of Brooklyn. Mr. Ball was the first administrator of Act Up, an acronym for AIDS Coa
 Christopher Palmer, an orchestrator for several Oscar-winning film composers and the author of books on film music, died on Jan. 22 at St. Bartholomew's Hospital in London. He was 48 and lived in London. The cause was AIDS, said Patrick Russ, a colleague. Mr. Palmer orchestr
 Geoffrey Parsons, a pianist who accompanied many of the world's leading singers in recitals, died on Jan. 26 at Middlesex Hospital in London. He was 65 and lived in London. The cause was cancer, said Peter Bloor, his manager. Mr. Parsons was widely considered one of the lead
 Gregory Smith, an executive of Music Theater International, the stage-production licensing agency founded by the composer Frank Loesser, died last Saturday at Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan. He was 48 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was facial cancer, said Freddie B. Gershon, chairm
 Dr. Herman Beerman, a professor emeritus of dermatology at the University of Pennsylvania whose research helped advance the diagnosis and treatment of syphilis and psoriasis, died on Jan. 1 in his home in Philadelphia. He was 93. The cause was heart failure, said Dr. Lawrence Charle
 Ian Pitt-Watson, a professor at the Fuller Theological Seminary who had been a commentator and preacher on religious programs on British radio and television for nearly four decades, died on Jan. 11 at the St. John's Hospice in London. He was 71 and had lived in Pasadena, Calif. The
 Jack Lipman, the founder and president of Drizzle, a raincoat manufacturing company, died on Wednesday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 61 and lived in New York City. The cause of death was leukemia, said his sister-in-law, Naomi Lipman. Mr. Lipman began his career in the exe
 Jack Sendak, an author of children's books noted for their magical and even surreal qualities, died yesterday at Centra Medical Center in Freehold, N.J. He was 71 and lived in Clarksburg, N.J. He had suffered a brief illness, his family said. Mr. Sendak was the brother of Ma
 John Wieland Oswald, who as president of Pennsylvania State University from 1970 to 1983 was an early advocate for the university's entrance into the Big Ten Conference, died on Wednesday in his home in Philadelphia. He was 77. The cause was heart failure, said a daughter, Elizabeth
 Samuel C. Greenfield, a mathematics teacher turned investment adviser, died on Jan. 21 at Kingsbrook Hospital in Brooklyn. A Brooklyn resident, he was 89. The cause was kidney failure, his family said. Mr. Greenfield came to the United States from Austria as a boy. After gra
 William S. Richman, who led what was once the nation's largest maker of upholstered furniture, died on Thursday at his home in Glencoe, Ill. He was 73. The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Marilyn. Mr. Richman, who was born in New York, was president and chief executi
 Yuri Dyshlenko, a Russian artist who emigrated to the United States in 1989, died on Monday at his home in Richmond Hills, Queens. He was 58. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Alexandra. As an unofficial artist in the pre-glasnost Soviet Union, Mr. Dyshlenko pursued 
 Thomas Hayward, a leading tenor at the Metropolitan Opera during the 1940's and 1950's, died on Thursday at his home in Las Vegas, Nev. He was 77. He had suffered from kidney and heart failure, said a daughter, Carol Anne Klusak. Mr. Hayward first became known to New York op
 Jerry Zimmerman, a pianist with the New York City Ballet who appeared onstage in many of the company's productions, died on Saturday at his home in Pittstown, N.Y. He was 52. The cause was AIDS, said Deborah Koolish, a spokeswoman for the City Ballet. Mr. Zimmerman's role as
 John Fresco, a vice president and divisional merchandise manager for men's apparel at Saks Fifth Avenue, died Friday at his home in Clark, N.J. He was 54. Jaqui Lividini, a spokeswoman for Saks, where Mr. Fresco worked for nearly 35 years, said he died of cancer. Born in Yon
 Thomas Hayward, a leading tenor at the Metropolitan Opera in the 1940's and 1950's, died on Thursday at his home in Las Vegas, Nev. He was 77. He had suffered from kidney and heart failure, said a daughter, Carol Anne Klusak. Mr. Hayward first became known to New York opera 
 Art Taylor, a leading jazz drummer and bandleader who taught or inspired many young musicians, died yesterday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. He was 65. Mr. Taylor was a marvel on the bandstand. He swung like a strong breeze and tried to make every performance conversational, 
 James Merrill, the Pulitzer Prize-winning poet whose 14 books of verse established him as heir to the lyrical legacy of W. H. Auden and Wallace Stevens, died yesterday in Tucson, Ariz. He was 68 and had homes in Stonington, Conn., and New York City. He had been in Tucson on vacation
 Prof. Wallace W. Douglas, an innovator in the teaching of English and an authority on the Romantic poets, died last Tuesday at a nursing home in Park Ridge, Ill. He was 80 and lived in Evanston, Ill. The cause was complications from Parkinson's disease, said Arlene Napolilli, a cous
 Albert Elsen, an art historian at Stanford University and a leading authority on the sculpture of Auguste Rodin, died on Thursday at his home in Stanford, Calif. He was 67. The cause was a heart attack, a university spokesman said. In a career that spanned more than four dec
 The Rev. Clement J. McNaspy, a Jesuit author, historian, musicologist and linguist, died on Friday at Ignatius House, a Jesuit nursing home in New Orleans. He was 79. The cause was a stroke, according to Loyola University in New Orleans, where he was professor emeritus of religious 
 George Kalafatis, a lawyer and sports agent who negotiated multimillion-dollar contracts in baseball, football and basketball, died on Saturday at his home in Shaker Heights, Ohio. He was 50. His family said the cause was either a heart attack or a stroke. Mr. Kalafatis, who
 Igor Tamm, a biomedical scientist and educator who earned renown for his pioneering studies of the composition of viruses and how they replicate in the cells they invade, died on Monday at his home in Watch Hill, R.I. He was 72. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Olive.      
 John E. Sawyer, a former president of Williams College and the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, died yesterday at his home in Woods Hole, Mass. He was 77. The cause was cancer, said his son John. As president of Williams from 1961 to 1973, Mr. Sawyer led the college's eliminatio
 Rowland Watts, a lawyer who spent much of his career fighting on behalf of often-unpopular causes, died on Saturday at his home in Shelburne, Vt. He was 82 and lived in Pleasantville, N.Y., until last year. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said. Mr. Watts w
 Willard Waterman, an actor who played roles in numerous radio, television, film and theater productions, died on Thursday at his home in Burlingame, Calif. He was 80. The cause was bone marrow disease, his family said. During the golden age of radio, Mr. Waterman starred in 
 Antonio Aris de Castilla, the Consul General of Guatemala and dean of the consular corps in New York, died on Jan. 23 at New York Hospital-Cornell University Medical Center. He was 81 and lived in Riverdale, N.Y. The cause was pneumonia, said his daughter, Lilly Rose Marshall-Carr. 
 David L. Norman, a chief of the Justice Department's civil rights division in the Nixon Administration and a Superior Court judge in Washington until his retirement in 1983, died on Monday at the Washington Home and Hospice. He was 70 and lived in Washington. The cause was pneumonia
 Raphael Mitchel Robinson, a mathematician who contributed to some of the more esoteric fields in his discipline during a career of nearly six decades, died on Jan. 27 at the Kaiser Permanente Medical Center in San Francisco. He was 83 and lived in Berkeley, Calif. The cause was pneu
 Robert Mier, a professor of urban planning and public administration at the University of Illinois at Chicago and a leading expert on economic and social issues facing American cities, died on Sunday at his home. He was 52 and lived in Chicago. His family said he died of a form of l
 Dr. Robert McC. Netting, who helped establish cultural ecology as a scientific discipline, died on Saturday in Tucson, Ariz., where he was professor of anthropology at the University of Arizona. He was 60. The university said the cause was bone-marrow cancer, diagnosed last December
 Thomas McElrath Debevoise 2d, who was elected Attorney General in Vermont in 1960 and later was dean of the Vermont Law School, died on Feb. 1 at the Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center in Lebanon, N.H. He was 65 and lived in Woodstock, Vt. The cause was complications from surgery fo
 Courtenay E. Benson, an actor in radio, television, theater and films, died on Feb. 5 at Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount Kisco, N.Y. He was 80 and lived in Mount Kisco. The cause was heart failure, his family said. Mr. Benson, who shortened his given name to Court, wa
 J. William Fulbright, the Arkansas Democrat whose powerful mind and eloquent voice helped to rally opposition to the Vietnam War, died at 1:15 this morning at his home here. He was 89. The cause of death was a stroke that he suffered three weeks ago, said his wife, Harriet Mayor Ful
 Ralph Kirstein Heyman, a former president and chief executive of the Consolidated Cork Corporation, a manufacturer of bottle caps and can-manufacturing equipment, died on Monday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 86. The cause of death was a stroke, said his daughter, Jeanne H. K
 Dr. Robert L. Kaiser, an epidemiologist who helped change the direction of malaria control around the world, died today at his home here. He was 64. The cause was cancer, said a spokesman for the Federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, where Dr. Kaiser was a leading rese
 Dr. Thomas L. Marchioro, a surgeon whose research laid the foundation for the first successful liver transplants, died on Sunday at the University of Washington Medical Center in Seattle. He was 66 and lived in Bellevue, Wash. The cause was complications from heart disease, said the
 Alfred C. Edwards, a former president and chairman of Holt, Rinehart & Winston, died on Feb. 4 at his home in Natick, Mass., where he moved in 1993. He was 89 and had lived in New Canaan, Conn., for nearly 50 years. The cause was cancer, said a son, Gordon Edwards of Natick.
 Donald Collier, a former curator at the Field Museum of Natural History in Chicago and a leading figure in the anthropology of North and South American Indians, died on Jan. 23 at Highland Hospital in Oakland, Calif. He was 83 and lived in Oakland. His family said he died of injurie
 Dr. Eli Robins, a former chairman of the department of psychiatry at the Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis, and a leader of the movement to apply traditional medical and scientific standards to psychiatric research and treatment, died on Dec. 21 at Barnes Hospital in St.
 Eric Q. Bohlin, who was president of Eberhard Faber Inc., a maker of pencils, died on Jan. 24 at Morton Plant Hospital in Clearwater, Fla. He was 85 and lived in Palm Harbor, Fla. The cause was complications of pulmonary and heart disease, said his son, Peter, of Wilkes-Barre, Pa.  
 John Hendricks Young, a business and tax lawyer for more than 50 years in New York, died on Tuesday at his home in Bal Harbour, Fla. A former resident of Manhattan and Whitehouse, N.J., he was 82. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. After World War II, Mr. Young work
 Jordan S. Lasher, a chemical engineer whose childhood hobby of doing crossword puzzles led him to become an innovator in designing puzzles that emphasize creative themes and word play, died on Jan. 31 in his home in Novato, Calif. He was 48. The cause was a brain tumor, said his mot
 Leonard S. Silk, a columnist and editorial writer for The New York Times and for Business Week, who set a standard for a generation of journalists as a pioneer in making complex economic issues understandable to general readers, died Friday night at his home in Montclair, N.J. He was 76.   
 Maurice H. Halperin, an exiled American scholar and former intelligence official whose books chronicled the career of Fidel Castro, died Friday at Royal Columbia Hospital outside Vancouver, British Columbia, a friend, Lenard Cohen, said. He was 88 years old and had lived in Canada since 196
 Paul Monette, a writer whose autobiography, "Becoming a Man: Half a Life Story," a memoir of suppressing and then celebrating his homosexuality, won the 1992 National Book Award for nonfiction, died at home Friday at 7:30 P.M. He was 49 and lived in West Hollywood, Calif. Elisabeth 
 David Wayne, an actor who played widely divergent roles on Broadway, in television and in films for almost 50 years and who was the first recipient of a Tony Award for acting, died on Thursday at his home in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 81. The cause was lung cancer, said his daughte
 Frank Bailinson, a reporter and copy editor at The New York Times for 31 years, died on Saturday in a nursing home in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 81. Mr. Bailinson, who had lived in Chapel Hill for the last 10 years, died of pneumonia, said his daughter, Ann Kleinman. A native 
 Judge Irving L. Goldberg, a friend and adviser to President Lyndon B. Johnson and one of the Federal judiciary's strongest links to the civil rights era, died Saturday at his home in Dallas. He was 88 and died of complications of a long-standing neurological disorder, family members said.  
 James R. Kerr, an executive who helped to lead the Avco Corporation into the conglomerate era, died on Wednesday at his home in La Jolla, Calif. He was 77 years old. The cause of death was congestive heart failure, his son William said. During his 12-year tenure as chief exe
 Jon Michael Garness, a lighting designer and stage manager, died on Feb. 8 at his home in Manhattan. He was 65. A graduate of the Yale School of Drama, Mr. Garness was known for his sensitive, unobtrusively dramatic lighting designs for the modern-dance companies of Phyllis Lamhut, 
 Nat Holman, one of the greatest basketball players of the 1920's and then one of the nation's most respected coaches during a 41-year career at City College, died yesterday at the Hebrew Home for the Aged in Riverdale, Bronx. He was 98. He died of natural causes, said his nephew, To
 Paul Monette, a writer whose autobiography, "Becoming a Man: Half a Life Story," a memoir of suppressing and then celebrating his homosexuality, won the 1992 National Book Award for nonfiction, died at home on Friday. He was 49 and lived in West Hollywood, Calif. Elisabeth Nonas, a 
 Bob Randall, the author of the Broadway comedy "6 Rms Riv Vu" and the head writer and co-producer of the television series "Kate and Allie," died yesterday at his home in New Milford, Conn. He was 57. The cause was AIDS, said Gary Pratt, his companion. Mr. Randall, whose ori
 Howard Geld, known as Howie the Harp to the mentally ill and homeless to whom he committed his life after spending time in institutions for the emotionally disturbed while a teen-ager, died on Feb. 5 at his home on the Lower East Side of Manhattan. He was 42. The cause was apparentl
 Alfred Steinberg, a journalist and biographer, died on Feb. 6 in Silver Spring, Md. He was 77. The cause was a stroke, said his wife, Florence Schoenberg Steinberg. Mr. Steinberg wrote biographies of Harry S. Truman, Lyndon B. Johnson, Eleanor Roosevelt and Sam Rayburn. He a
 Dr. Li Zhisui, the personal doctor of Mao Zedong whose recently published memoirs portrayed the Chinese leader as a manipulative egomaniac with little tolerance of dissent and a penchant for young women, died Monday at his home in suburban Chicago. He was 75. The cause apparently wa
 Frederic N. Schwartz, a retired chairman and chief executive of the Bristol-Myers Company, the diversified health care company, died on Monday in New York. He was 88 and lived in New York and had a summer home in the Berkshires. The cause of death was pneumonia, a spokesman for the 
 Frederick Fuller, a singer, writer and teacher, died on Feb. 3 at his home in Eastbourne, England. He was 86. Mr. Fuller, a baritone, was known for his sensitive interpretations of lesser-known vocal works, from early troubadour songs to 20th-century Serial works. He gave his first 
 James J. (Jimmy) Powers, the longtime sports editor of The Daily News who supplemented the reach of his "Powerhouse" column with a parallel career as a boxing commentator on NBC television's Gillette Friday Night Fights, died on Saturday at his home in Bal Harbour, Fla. He was 92. H
 Louis E. Schwartz, a retired New York Law School professor and an authority on personal injury law, died on Thursday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 92. The cause was cancer, said a son-in-law, Norman H. Dachs of Woodmere, L.I. Shortly after graduating from Brooklyn Law Scho
 Millard E. Gladfelter, a former teacher in a one-room Pennsylvania schoolhouse who ended his educational career as president of Temple University in Philadelphia, died on Sunday at his home in Rydal Park, Pa. He was 95. Dr. Gladfelter served as Temple's fourth president, from 1959 t
 U Nu, the magnetic but star-crossed Prime Minister who led Burma through 12 of its first 15 years of independence and helped found the nonaligned nations movement, died yesterday at his home in Yangon, formerly Rangoon. He was 87. In announcing his death, his family did not disclose
 William Bross Lloyd Jr., a conscientious objector who founded the newsletter Toward Freedom, which follows the progress of new countries, died of pneumonia on Saturday at his home in Rochester, Vt. He was 86. Mr. Lloyd, grandson of the 19th-century social reformer Henry Demarest Llo
 Alberto Burri, the Italian artist whose abstractions in burlap, plastic, corroded metal and charred wood made him one of the pioneers of postwar European art, died on Monday at Pasteur Hospital in Nice, France. He was 79. The cause was respiratory failure, the Italian news agency AN
 Alph B. Peterson, a former president and chief executive of the International Playtex Corporation, a consumer products company, died on Feb. 7 at Martin Memorial Hospital in Stuart, Fla. Mr. Peterson, 82, lived in Stuart. The cause was bone marrow disease, said his son, Steven.     
 Douglas V. Steere, an author and philosophy professor at Haverford College from 1928 to 1964 who helped organize Quaker relief efforts in Finland, Norway and Poland after World War II, died on Feb. 6 at his residence in the Quadrangle, a retirement community in Haverford, Pa. He was 93.    
 Emilio Gabriel Collado, an economist and oil company executive who helped design the international post-World War II monetary system and served as America's first executive director of the World Bank, died at the Jupiter Medical Center in Jupiter, Fla., on Feb. 9. A resident of Palm Beach G
 Martin Lang, a former supervisor of the Town of Southampton, L.I., and the former president of a drainage contracting company, died last Wednesday at his home in Palm City, Fla. He was 67. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Nancy. Beginning in 1979, Mr. Lang served five te
 Michael Shall, a leading American expert in origami, the popular Japanese art of paper folding, died on Feb. 9 at New York University Medical Center. He was 45 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from AIDS, said a brother, David Shall, of Harrisburg, Pa. The 
 Parke Atherton Dickey, a petroleum geologist and retired educator, died on Feb. 3 at his home in Haverford, Pa. He was 85. He had been in declining health for several years, said a son, Thomas M. Dickey of Lincoln University, Pa. After receiving a doctorate in geology from J
 Tommy Valando, a music publisher and backer of Broadway musicals who also became a major figure in horse racing, died on Tuesday at St. Mary's Hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 72 and had homes in Palm Beach and Greenwich, Conn. His wife, Elizabeth, said the cause was complic
 Dr. Aubrey E. Boyd 3d, a physician and professor who was a leading researcher into how drugs work on diabetes that develops in adulthood, died on Feb. 7 in his home in Hingham, Mass. He was 54. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Nancy Stice Boyd. Research conducted by Dr. 
 F. W. Elliot Farr, a financial analyst and investment adviser in Philadelphia for more than 60 years, died at his home in Gladwyne, Pa., on Sunday. He was 85. The cause was leukemia, said his daughter Martha F. Kent of Essex, Vt. Mr. Farr began his investment career in 1933 
 James Lawrence Jr., an architect who designed a number of public structures in the Boston area and was a leading preservationist of the city's natural beauty and historical landmarks, died on Jan. 29 at his home in Brookline, Mass. He was 87. In a period that spanned 60 years, Mr. L
 Joel Saxe, who helped to found the Rich's Department Stores chain 33 years ago, died on Feb. 3 at Salem Hospital in Massachusetts. He was 58 and lived in Marblehead, Mass. The cause was a heart attack, said a spokesman for the company. Mr. Saxe opened a discount department s
 Luther M. Noss, an organist and professor emeritus of music at Yale University, died on Feb. 9 at Yale-New Haven Hospital. He was 87 and lived in New Haven. He died after a brief illness, said his wife, Osea Calciolari Noss. Mr. Noss was born in Leland, Ill., and educated at
 Moorhead C. Kennedy, a banker who served as one of the first presidents of Goodwill Industries of Greater New York, died on Feb. 9 at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 93 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said a son, Alexander S. Kennedy of Manhattan. Mr. Ken
 Valentin Mandrajji, a designer of fine chinaware, died on Feb. 5 at his home in Manhattan. He was 65. The cause was cancer, said Richard R. Gillespie, a former associate at Cartier. Born Prince Valentin Hldbodaroff-Mandrajji to Russian parents in Vienna and educated in Roman
 President Clinton eulogized former Senator J. William Fulbright today as a mentor and an inspiration, a man who "stood against the 20th century's most destructive forces and fought to advance its brightest hopes." Mr. Fulbright, an Arkansas Democrat, represented the President's home
 David Garvey, a pianist best known for his collaborations with Leontyne Price and other performers, died on Tuesday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 72 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was heart failure, said David Targ, his lawyer and friend. Ac
 Kenton Kilmer, a writer and editor and the son of the poet Joyce Kilmer, died on Feb. 10 at his home in Vienna, Va. He was 85. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Kilmer, who was 9 when his father was killed in France in World War I, was born in Morristown, N.J. He wa
 Mel Williamson, a painter and art director who turned to writing after his eyesight failed, died on Monday at his home in New York City. He was 72. The cause was bone cancer, said his wife, Lorraine. Mr. Williamson was narrator and co-writer, with Clayton Riley, of "The Diff
 Robert Clancy, an educator who was director of the Henry George School of Social Science from 1946 to 1970 and founder of the Henry George Institute, died on Feb. 9 in Jackson Heights Hospital in Queens. He was 80 and lived in Jackson Heights. The cause was colon cancer, said George
 Rabbi Abraham Shusterman, a member and leader of interfaith groups that played a role in calming social unrest in American cities in the 1960's, died on Jan. 26 at his home in Baltimore. He was 88. The cause was cancer, said his daughter, Sara Lee Jacobson of Baltimore. Rabb
 Eric A. Walker, a former president of Pennsylvania State University, died Friday afternoon at his home in State College, Pa. He was 84. The cause was a heart ailment, said Roger Williams, a spokesman for the university. Dr. Walker was the second former president of the unive
 John J. Sughrue, director of the Huntley-Brinkley newscasts on NBC-TV in the 1960's and an award-winning producer of documentaries, died on Feb. 10 at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 67. Mr. Sughrue, who lived in Forest Hills, Queens, died of lung cancer, said his sister Jane 
 Philip Jerome Rudd, a leading real estate developer for many years on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, died on Feb. 11 at Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 68. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Rudd, who was born in Buffalo and raised in Brooklyn, began his real e
 Massimo Pallottino, an Italian archeologist who was an authority on the Etruscans, died on Feb. 7 at his home in Rome. He was 85. The cause was a heart attack, The Associated Press reported. Larissa Bonfante, a classics professor at New York University and also an expert on 
 Rachid Mimouni, a prominent Algerian writer, died on Feb. 12 in a hospital in Paris. He was 49 and had lived in Morocco for the last two years. The cause was acute viral hepatitis, the British newspaper The Independent reported. His last novel, "The Misfortune," was publishe
 Dr. Bernard V. Dryer, a physician, medical educator and best-selling novelist, died on Wednesday at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 77. He had had Parkinson's disease for 15 years, his family said. Dr. Dryer was an early advocate of continuing medical education and helpe
 Calder Willingham, the novelist and screenwriter whose first book, "End as a Man," made him a literary star at 24, died on Sunday at the Lakes Region General Hospital in Laconia, N.H. He was 72 and lived in New Hampton, N.H. The cause was lung cancer, said his son Tom. Mr. W
 Robert B. M. Barton, the president of Parker Brothers who first rejected and then acquired the rights to Monopoly, died last Tuesday at his home in Marblehead, Mass. He was 91. The cause was old age, said Mr. Barton's son Randolph. Mr. Barton was practicing law with his fath
 Robert H. Levi, the former chairman and president of the Hecht chain of department stores in the Washington-Baltimore area, died on Friday at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore. Mr. Levi, who lived in Lutherville, Md., was 79. The cause of death was heart failure, his son Richard s
 Yank Lawson, a jazz trumpeter who was an important member of several popular bands in a career that spanned six decades, died on Saturday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Indianapolis. He was 84 and lived in Indianapolis. The cause was a heart attack, said Bill York, a friend. M
 Carl Tolman, who in 35 years with Washington University in St. Louis rose from an assistant geology professor to become chancellor, died on Feb. 13 at his home in Kirkwood, Mo. He was 97 and had lived for many years in University City, Mo. The cause was complications from a stroke, 
 Edmund W. Adams, senior director of advertising for National Football League publications, died on Monday at New Rochelle (N.Y.) Hospital. Mr. Adams, who lived in Larchmont, N.Y., was 60. He died from injuries suffered in a fall at his home, said his wife, the former Joan Pederson. 
 Irving S. Kosloff, who established the 76ers in Philadelphia in 1963 and owned the National Basketball Association franchise during its years of greatest success and most abysmal failure, died on Sunday at his home in Merion, Pa. He was 82. The cause of death was leukemia, his famil
 Dr. Morris S. Schulzinger, a physician for 61 years who became an expert on accidents and their prevention, died on Wednesday at Christ Hospital in Cincinnati, where he lived. He was 94. The cause was kidney and heart failure, said a daughter, Penina Frankel of Cincinnati. H
 William Way Watkins, a chemist who did early research in the development of the synthetic fibers Orlon and Dacron, died on Wednesday in the White Horse Village retirement home in Newtown Square, Pa. He was 83 and had been a resident of Swarthmore, Pa., for more than 40 years. The ca
 William A. Moffett, a historian and librarian who was instrumental in breaking the 40-year monopoly on scholarly access to the Dead Sea Scrolls, died on Monday night at his home in Pasadena, Calif. He was 62. The cause was cancer of the bladder, according to the Huntington Library i
 Arthur Stang, a real estate developer whose projects included the Gulf and Western Building on Columbus Circle, died on Sunday at his home in Lake Worth, Fla. He was 85. The cause was liver cancer, said his son, Robert. In addition to the 44-story Gulf and Western Building, 
 Bob Stinson, who played lead guitar in the influential 1980's rock band the Replacements, was found dead in his Minneapolis apartment on Saturday. He was 35. The cause was an unintentional overdose of a substance that has not yet been identified, said his mother, Anita Stinson Kurth
 Hugh Gregg Cleland, a professor of history at the State University at Stony Brook, L.I., died on Feb. 14 in his home in Setauket, L.I. He was 72. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Celia Cleland. He was born in Marion, Ohio, and grew up in Akron in a time of industrial exp
 James R. Cowan, a physician who served as Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health and Environmental Services in the Nixon Administration and in a variety of other high posts in health administration, died last Thursday at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 78. His wife, Dolores, wh
 Jim Katcavage, the gritty defensive end for the New York Giants who began his career on the famous 1956 championship team and never let up for 13 grueling seasons, died yesterday at his home in Maple Glen, Pa., outside Philadelphia. He was 60. The cause was a heart attack, his famil
 Dr. Kenneth M. Setton, one of the foremost interpreters of medieval Europe and the Crusades, the papacy and the dawn of the Renaissance, died on Saturday at Princeton (N.J.) Medical Center. He was 80. The cause was complications from a stroke he suffered a few weeks ago, according t
 Judge Robert A. Wall, who continued the judicial tradition established by his grandfather and father in northwestern Connecticut, died on Sunday in the Litchfield Woods rest home in Torrington, Conn. He was 85 and a resident of Harwinton, Conn. The cause was respiratory failure, sai
 Robert Bolt, the Academy Award-winning screenwriter and playwright whose works included the films "Lawrence of Arabia" and "Dr. Zhivago" and the play and film "A Man for All Seasons," died on Monday at his home near Petersfield, Hampshire, in southern England. He was 70. He had been
 Arthur Stang, a real estate developer whose projects included the Gulf and Western Building on Columbus Circle, died on Sunday at his home in Lake Worth, Fla. He was 85. The cause was liver cancer, said his son, Robert. In addition to the 44-story Gulf and Western Building, 
 Bob Stinson, who played lead guitar in the influential 1980's rock band the Replacements, was found dead in his Minneapolis apartment on Saturday. He was 35. The cause was an unintentional overdose of a substance that has not yet been identified, said his mother, Anita Stinson Kurth
 Hugh Gregg Cleland, a professor of history at the State University at Stony Brook, L.I., died on Feb. 14 in his home in Setauket, L.I. He was 72. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Celia Cleland. He was a leader in the 1960's in establishing the Democratic Socialist Organi
 Hugo Munsterberg, an Oriental art scholar, writer and collector, died on Feb. 16 at his home in New Paltz, N.Y. He was 78. The cause was congestive heart failure, said his wife, Marjorie Bowen Munsterberg. He was the author of several books, including "The Folk Arts of Japan
 James Herriot, the author whose "All Creatures Great and Small" and 17 other books have drawn even the most urban of readers into a magical country world of animals and their veterinarians, died yesterday at his home near Thirsk, Yorkshire, in northern England. He was 78 years old. 
 Leonard Gordon Ratner, a scholar of constitutional law who argued against efforts to limit the powers of the United States Supreme Court, died on Feb. 9 in the Driftwood Healthcare Center in Torrance, Calif. He was 78 and a resident of Palos Verdes Estates, Calif. The cause was comp
 Marshall Schalk, a geologist known for his studies of the Arctic shoreline of Alaska, died on Tuesday at Cooley Dickenson Hospital in Northampton, Mass. Dr. Schalk, who lived in Northampton, was 87. The cause was a heart attack, said a spokeswoman for Smith College, where he was pro
 Michael V. Gazzo, an actor and playwright whose 1955 drama, "A Hatful of Rain," broke theatrical ground in its candid and sympathetic portrayal of drug addiction, died on Feb. 14 at Vencor Hospital in Los Angeles. He was 71 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was complications after
 Noel Rockmore, a painter who specialized in pictures of New Orleans jazz musicians, died on Sunday at St. Jude Medical Center in Kenner, La., a suburb of New Orleans. He was 66 and lived in the French Quarter. A spokesman for the hospital would not give the cause of death. I
 Judge Robert A. Wall, who continued the judicial tradition established by his grandfather and father in northwestern Connecticut, died on Sunday in the Litchfield Woods rest home in Torrington, Conn. He was 85 and a resident of Harwinton, Conn. The cause was respiratory failure, sai
 Alexander Woroniak, an expert on East European economic systems who was professor emeritus and former chairman of the Department of Economics and Business at The Catholic University of America, died on Tuesday in Georgetown University Hospital. He was 76 and lived in Washington. The
 Avron Douglis, a professor emeritus at the University of Maryland who was an expert in partial differential equations, the means by which mathematicians express many fundamental laws of physics and engineering, died on Feb. 15 at his home in Silver Spring, Md. He was 76. The cause w
 Benjamin Goldstein, a retailing executive in Detroit and New York who helped members of minorities establish their own businesses, died on Sunday at the Hebrew Home for the Aged in Rockville, Md. He was 83 and a resident of Washington. The cause was a stroke, said his daughter Carol
 George Minturn Worden, a former public relations executive, died on Wednesday at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. A resident of the Georgetown section, he was 73. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. Born in Manhattan, Mr. Worden attended Columbia Univers
 Harold Allen Zabrack, a composer, pianist and former professor at Westminster Choir College of Rider University in Lawrenceville, N.J., died on Feb. 2 at his home in Creve Coeur, Mo. He was 66. The cause was peritonitis, said a spokeswoman for the college. Mr. Zabrack was th
 James R. Cowan, a physician who served as Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health and Environmental Services in the Nixon Administration and in a variety of other high posts in health administration, died Feb. 16 at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 78. His wife, Dolores, who said
 Dr. Joseph D. Brenna, former president of the medical staff at St. Francis Medical Center in Trenton, died on Thursday at the hospital. He was 74. The cause was bladder cancer, family members said. Dr. Brenna, who lived in Trenton, was a general surgeon at St. Francis from 1
 Paul L. Bates, the white colonel who commanded the first black tank battalion to enter combat in World War II, died on Tuesday at his home in Dunedin, Fla. He was 86. The cause was cancer, said a daughter-in-law, Dorothy Bates, of Bloomfield, Mich., and Manhattan. In January
 O Jin U, the North Korean Defense Minister and long-time army leader in perhaps the most militarized country in the world, died today. He was 77. The cause of death was cancer, the official Korea Central News Agency reported. Mr. O received treatment for lung cancer in Paris in Octo
 Felix Ermacora, an Austrian human rights specialist whose scathing reports for the United Nations on human rights abuses in Afghanistan in the 1980's gained wide attention, died on Friday in a hospital in Vienna. He was 71 and lived in Vienna. The cause was a disease he caught on a 
 Woodrow Wilson Williams, who had 10 straight hits as a Cincinnati Reds infielder in 1943, tying a National League record that still stands, died Friday at Appomattox Health Care Center, a nursing home in Appomattox, Va. He was 82 and had lived in Pamplin, Va. He was suffering from a
 Dr. Joseph Wortis, a psychiatrist analyzed by Freud and the longtime editor of the journal Biological Psychiatry, died on Wednesday in White Plains Hospital. Dr. Wortis, who lived in Brooklyn and on Shelter Island, L.I., was 88. The cause was prostate cancer, according to his compan
 Frank Layton Schaub, a former Florida state prosecutor who drew national attention with two cases he tried in the 1960's, died on Thursday at Cypress Memorial Hospital in Inverness, Fla. A former resident of Bradenton, Fla., he was 73 and had recently lived in Inverness. He had suff
 Kenneth Merwin Spang, a New York economist and banker who played a leading role in persuading many nations in Latin America and elsewhere to resume repayment on defaulted international loans, died Feb. 20 in Greenwich, Conn., his widow, Florence Twiford Spang, said Friday. Mr. Spang
