 C. Roland Christensen, an influential Harvard Business School professor who helped create the field of business strategy and was an authority on the use of the case method in teaching, died on Saturday. He was 80. He died at St. Thomas Hospital in Nashville from complications after 
 Prof. William Albert Niering, an internationally recognized expert on the ecology of wetlands and tidal marshes, died Monday in New London, where he had just addressed the incoming class of 2003 at Connecticut College. He was 75 and lived in Gales Ferry, Conn. He collapsed on the ca
 Dr. Waldo Cohn, a biochemist involved in building the world's first nuclear bomb and later a pioneer in using radioactive isotopes for medical research, died on Friday at a hospital in Oak Ridge, Tenn., where he lived. He was 89. During World War II, Dr. Cohn worked on the Manhattan
 Eugene Ostroff, a former curator of photography at the Smithsonian Institution, an authority on the history of photography as a technology and an influential lecturer and writer on photographic conservation, died on Aug. 26 in Washington, where he lived. He was 71. The cause was can
 Paul Showers, author of a series of  science books for young readers and a former editor for The New York Times, died on July 17 at the home of his daughter, Dr. Kate B. Showers, in Orange, Mass. He was 89. He wrote some 25 science-related books in the ''Let's Read and Find Out'' se
 William Mayo Sullivan, a New York insurance broker and longtime benefactor of classical music in the city, died on Tuesday at his home on the Upper East Side. He was 78. The cause was renal cancer, his family said. Mr. Sullivan was a past president of the Metropolitan Opera 
 Alex Haynes, a Ford Motor Company engineer who pioneered safety devices for American cars in the 1950's, died Monday in a nursing home in Stuart, Fla. He was 89. When Mr. Haynes oversaw Ford's development of the auto industry's first comprehensive package of safety equipment, his cr
 Henry E. Singleton, a brilliant engineer who co-founded and built Teledyne Inc. into one of the nation's largest and most enduring conglomerates, died Tuesday at his home in Los Angeles. The cause was brain cancer, his family said. He was 82. Dr. Singleton made an early mark with te
 Mark Zebrowski, a historian of Islamic art who specialized in Mogul culture of southern India, died on Aug. 22 in London. He was 54. The cause was cancer. While in the Peace Corps in India in 1967, Mr. Zebrowski became interested in Deccani metalwork and manuscript painting,
 Milton Jack Mirman, an authority on United States stamps who was once a major dealer, died last Friday at a hospital in Drexel Hill, Pa. He was 84. Mr. Mirman, a longtime resident of Baldwin, N.Y., had moved to an elder-care community in Media, Pa., last year. The cause of d
 Charles E. Perry, who turned an abandoned airfield on the fringes of the Everglades into Florida International University, died on Monday at his home in Rockwall, Tex. He was 62. The cause was cancer, according to a statement released by the university. Mr. Perry, who was th
 Stanley Alexander Weigel, a retired Federal judge who had ordered California to improve living conditions in prisons and, earlier in his career, had defended professors dismissed for refusing to take a loyalty oath, died on Wednesday at his home in San Francisco. He was 93. Mr. Weig
 Walter O. Wells, a former chairman of the Schult Homes Corporation, who helped start mobile homes on the road to what became the manufactured housing industry in the United States, died Monday at his home in Elkhart, Ind. He was 87. Mr. Wells's career in mobile homes began as a cler
 Edward Charles Bassett, a widely praised architect whose work ranged from San Francisco's symphony hall to the United States Embassy in Moscow, died last Saturday in a San Francisco hospital. He was 77 and lived in Mill Valley, Calif. The cause was a stroke he had suffered 10 days e
 E. J. B. (Jim) Rose, who worked with the legendary British code breakers at Bletchley Park during World War II, died on May 20 in Sussex. He was 89. The advance knowledge of German plans, so laboriously deciphered at Bletchley Park, helped Britain when it was fighting alone against 
 Jascha Zayde, a pianist, composer and conductor who for more than three decades gave weekly performances on WQXR, the radio station owned by The New York Times, died on Friday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 87 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Zayde was the first staff musician hired by W
 Lionel S. Jackson Sr., the former publisher of The New Haven Register and The New Haven Journal-Courier, died on Wednesday at his home in Montecito, Calif. He was 84. Mr. Jackson, who retired in the 1980's, was a son of John Day Jackson, who bought The Journal-Courier, a morning pap
 Allen Funt, the creator and original host of ''Candid Camera,'' network television's kindhearted snare for the unwary, died on Sunday at his home in Pebble Beach, Calif. He was 84. His family said the cause was  complications from a serious stroke suffered in 1993. Mr. Funt retired 
 Bert MacLeech, an associate professor emeritus at the University of Southern California and a leader in the 1950's movement to provide community-based services for handicapped young people, died on Aug. 26 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 90. With his wife, the former Pearl Raza, 
 Alan Clark, the outrageously acerbic Conservative Member of Parliament whose witty, waspish political diaries by turns skewered his colleagues, gave vent to his splenetic opinions, and unashamedly celebrated his love of women other than his wife, died suddenly at home in Kent on Sunday, thr
 Barry Shipp, a perfume salesman who discovered an aromatic oil being sold in a drug paraphernalia shop and developed it into a multimillion-dollar business called Jovan Musk, died Monday at his home in Chicago. He was 62. He died of a heart attack, said his daughter, Lara Shipp.    
 Herbert Stein, a free-market economist who used careful analysis and sharp wit to persuade the business community in the 1940's to rally behind the ''unnatural'' idea of using Federal budget deficits to regulate the economy, died yesterday at a hospital in Washington. He was 83. The
 Shirley F. Bowden, an early advocate of middle-income housing in New York, died Tuesday at a nursing home in Valhalla, N.Y. He was 88. Mr. Bowden was founder and president of the Association for Middle Income Housing, which became the Metropolitan Mutual Housing Association. He was 
 Alexi Ramov, a founder of the Northeast Regional Ballet Association and the longtime director of the Ballet Guild of the Lehigh Valley in Pennsylvania, died on Sept. 2 at Manorcare Health Services in Bethlehem, Pa. He was 82. Mr. Ramov, born Joseph E. Kowatch Jr., was a major figure
 Catfish Hunter, the Hall of Fame right-hander who helped pitch the Oakland A's and the Yankees to six pennants in the 1970's, hurled a perfect game and was part of an economic revolution in sports, died yesterday at his home at Hertford, N.C. He was 53. He had been struggling for th
 Gene Federico, a graphic designer and advertising executive who helped introduce a style of typography to American advertising that made the lettering the star, rather than a supporting player, died on Wednesday at his home in Pound Ridge, N.Y. He was 81. He died after an extended b
 Jan Gorbaty, a stylish, white-maned Polish pianist with a patriot's zeal for the music of Chopin who founded the New York chapter of the National Chopin Foundation, died on Monday at his home in Forest Hills, Queens. He was 84. The cause was cancer, said his daughter, Susan.        
 Alfredo Kraus, a lyric tenor who was revered for the refinement of his phrasing and the artistry he brought to bel canto roles, died yesterday at his home in Madrid. He was 71. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his family said. Although he never received the kind of popular a
 Herbert J. Alexander, an internationally known mathematician who had solved several complex problems that had baffled mathematicians for years, died on Aug. 27 in Evanston, Ill. He was 58. The cause of death was lymphoma, said his wife, Susan Alexander. Dr. Alexander, who li
 Dr. Ray E. Trussell, a former Commissioner of Hospitals in New York City and later the general director of Beth Israel Medical Center  in Manhattan, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 85. In the 1960's, Dr. Trussell was a passionate advocate of better health care for
 John K. Tabor, a lawyer who was prominent in Republican Party politics in Pennsylvania in the 1960's and was Under Secretary of Commerce in the Nixon Administration, died on Monday in Alexandria, Va. He was 78 and lived in Washington. From 1973, when President Richard M. Nixon named
 Dr. John Laurence McHugh, a former professor of marine resources at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, died on Aug. 20 at a hospital in Fairfax, Va. He was 87. Dr. McHugh, who lived in McLean, Va., was born on Nov. 24, 1911, in Vancouver, British Columbia. He received 
 The gaunt, blind musician known as Moondog, who was celebrated among New Yorkers for two decades as a mysterious and extravagantly garbed street performer but who went on to win acclaim in Europe as an avant-garde composer, conducting orchestras before royalty, died Wednesday in a hospital 
 Beau Jocque, whose deep, bluesy voice and muscular zydeco band made him the top draw in the zydeco dance halls of the Louisiana bayou, died on Friday at his home in Kinder, La. He was 45. The cause was apparently a heart attack, reported The Daily Advertiser of Lafayette, La.       
 Mcwayizeni Ka Dinizulu, the most senior Prince of the Zulu people of South Africa, died on Tuesday, the South African Government has announced. He was 67. His family said he had been sick for more than two years, The Associated Press reported. Mcwayizeni was a controversial 
 Momcilo Djujic, a Serbian warrior-priest who fought as a Chetnik commander in epic World War II battles in Yugoslavia, died Saturday at a hospice in San Diego. He was 92. Mr. Djujic, who lived in San Marcos, Calif., was in the view of some Serbs the last great ''Vojvoda,'' the desig
 Stanley M. Simmons, a costume designer for ballet and theater, died on Sept. 4 in Los Angeles, where he lived. He was 71. The cause was heart failure, said Eddie Michaels, who is married to Mr. Simmons's niece. Mr. Simmons was known for dance costumes that quietly evoked the
 Otto A. Silha, a onetime copy editor and newspaper marketer who became president and publisher of The Minneapolis Star and Tribune in the 1970's and after retiring in 1984 underwrote a program in media ethics at the University of Minnesota, died Saturday. He was 80. The cause was co
 Tony Duquette, the designer whose lavish, whimsically baroque sets and costumes, interiors and jewelry made him a Hollywood favorite for more than five decades, died on Sept. 9. He was 85. The cause of his death, at the University of California at Los Angeles Medical Center, was com
 Benjamin S. Bloom, whose path-breaking 1964 research showing the profound impact of early childhood experience on adult ability helped lead to the creation of the Head Start program, died on Monday. He was 86. Dr. Bloom died at his home in Chicago, said William Harms, a spokesman fo
 Cleveland (Big Cat) Williams, who fought Muhammad Ali for the world heavyweight boxing championship in November 1966, two years after a shooting by a policeman left Williams with one kidney and a bullet lodged near his hip, died last Friday in Houston. He was 66. Williams, who lived
 Vincent T. Wasilewski, who was president of the National Association of Broadcasters for 17 years, died on Sept. 9 at Washington Hospital Center. He was 76. The cause was heart failure, according to the association. Mr. Wasilewski's degree was in law, but his first love was 
 Alfredo Bojalil Gil, whose mellifluous guitar added honey to the sweet sound of the Latin trio Los Panchos, died on Friday at his Mexico City home. He was 84. Mr. Gil, who was known by his nickname, El Guero, which means fair-haired in Mexican Spanish, was the last surviving member 
 Charles Crichton, one of the brightest lights in the golden age of British film comedy in the late 1940's and 50's, and whose directing career faded and then blazed anew with his last film, ''A Fish Called Wanda,'' died on Tuesday in London. He was 89. It was after the war that Mr. 
 Frederick P. Rose, a highly successful builder who poured his energy into two dozen major apartment projects and an equal number of institutions that adorn the New York skyline, from Lincoln Center to Rockefeller University and the Children's Aid Society, died Tuesday night. He was 75.     
 Bill Quackenbush, who proved that defensemen could play hockey without being excessively rough or committing penalties, died last Sunday in the Chandler Hall Hospice in Newtown, Pa. He was 77. The cause was pneumonia and complications from Alzheimer's disease, said his son Bruce.   
 John F. White Sr., a political strategist and organizer whose leadership played a vital role in the election of black officials in Philadelphia, died on Wednesday at his home in Philadelphia. He was 75. In 1968, Mr. White helped found the Black Political Forum, his principal politic
 James R. West, a career diplomat and the husband of the writer Mary McCarthy for nearly 30 years, died on Monday at Eastern Maine Medical Center in Bangor. He was 84 and lived in Castine, Me. Dashing and worldly with a superlative wit, Mr. West immediately captured Ms. McCarthy's at
 W. Arthur Garrity Jr., the Federal judge whose school desegregation order led to the racial turmoil that tarred Boston as a place of busing infamy in the 1970's, died of cancer on Thursday at his home in Wellesley, Mass. He was 79. Judge Garrity died just as the last vestiges of the
 Allen Stack, a shy, gentle giant from Yale who won a gold medal in swimming in the 1948 Olympics and revolutionized the backstroke, died last Sunday in his home in Honolulu. He was 71. He had suffered from bone cancer for more than a year, said his wife, Elizabeth. The illness preve
 Charles Mraz, an inventive beekeeper who since the 1930's had been the country's leading evangelist for the therapeutic use of bee stings, a still unproven treatment, died on Monday at his home in Middlebury, Vt. He was 94. Mr. Mraz was widely known among beekeepers for developing a
 David Karp, a prolific writer of novels, screenplays and television dramas who rose to prominence in the Golden Age of television drama, died on Sept. 11 at the Berkshire Medical Center in Pittsfield, Mass. He was 77. Mr. Karp, who had homes in Manhattan and Pittsfield, died from em
 Gilbert O. Herman, an actor and producer who as a World War II Air Force officer played a similar role in the wartime play ''Winged Victory'' and who later became a major general in the Air Force Reserve, died on Sept. 6 in a hospital in Annapolis, Md. He was 80. ''Winged Victory,''
 Harry Crane, a comedy writer who helped create the long-running and perpetually rerun television show ''The Honeymooners,'' featuring Jackie Gleason, died last Monday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 85. Besides writing for Mr. Gleason, Mr. Crane concocted gags and routin
 Dr. Henry M. Wisniewski, an Alzheimer's disease researcher and the director of the New York State Institute for Basic Research in Developmental Disabilities, died on Sept. 5 at his home on Staten Island. He was 68. The cause was heart failure, said Donald A. Snider, a friend and col
 Leo Valiani, a highly placed member of the Italian anti-fascist resistance during World War II who became an outspoken postwar senator, died on Saturday at his home in Milan. He was 90. Mr. Valiani was also a journalist and author who for many years wrote editorials for the Milan da
 John W. Vanderhoff, a chemist who was the chief scientist of a National Aeronautics and Space Administration project that produced what was said to be the first commercial product made in space, died on Thursday at his home in Bethlehem, Pa. He was 74. He retired in 1997 from the fa
 Samuel James Ervin 3d, who was the chief judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit from 1989 to 1996, died on Saturday in a hospital in Morganton, N.C. He was 73 and lived in Morganton. Judge Ervin continued to serve on the court after his retirement as chie
 Austin K. Haldenstein, a real estate broker whose enthusiasm for brownstones helped start New York City's town house revival, died on Monday at a nursing home in Rye, N.Y., after a long illness. He was 74. Mr. Haldenstein also helped develop the ethics segment of the curriculum at N
 Frank Wagner, a director and choreographer who worked in theater, dance and television, died on Sept. 12 in the Health Park Care Center in Fort Myers, Fla. He was 77 and lived on Sanibel Island, Fla. The cause was complications of multiple myeloma, his family said. Mr. Wagne
 Philip N. Brownstein, a top Federal housing administrator in the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations who fought discrimination by builders and landlords and who expanded Depression-era housing laws to widen home ownership among minority groups, died on Friday in a hospital in Silver Spring,
 Thomas E. Atkins, who as an Army private in World War II received the Medal of Honor for repelling a Japanese attack on his infantry platoon in the Philippines while he was severely wounded, died on Sept. 15 at his home in Inman, S.C. He was 78. The cause was congestive heart failur
 Bishop Basil Rodzianko, a retired Bishop of the Orthodox Church in America who was known for the broadcasts on religious topics that he made from Britain and the United States to what is now Russia for more than three decades, died last Friday at his home in Washington. He was 84. T
 Conrad F. Taeuber, who directed the Federal census in 1960 and 1970, died on Sept. 11 in a nursing home in Nashua, N.H., where he had been living for several years. He was 93. Mr. Taeuber, a demographer by training, worked at the Federal Bureau of the Census from 1951 until 1973, be
 George C. Scott, an actor of extraordinary range and daring, celebrated for his performances as Gen. George S. Patton Jr. in the movie ''Patton'' and as Shakespeare's Richard III (in Central Park) and for his roles in countless other films and plays, died on Wednesday in his office in Westl
 Dr. William Eckert, a forensic pathologist who worked on major and often bizarre murder cases including the assassination of Senator Robert F. Kennedy and the re-examination of Jack the Ripper's killings, died on Friday at a hospital in New Orleans. He was 73 and lived in Terrytown, a subur
 Charles Trinkaus, a leading scholar of the Renaissance and a longtime history professor at Sarah Lawrence College in Bronxville, N.Y., died on  Sept. 15 at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 87 and lived in Bronxville. Mr. Trinkaus was one of the scholars who in the 1940's and 50's  ''
 Herbert V. Shuster, a food scientist who founded one of the nation's oldest consumer product testing companies, died Monday at a nursing home in the Brighton section of Boston, where he had been for several days. He was 75 years old and lived in Waban, Mass. The cause was complicati
 Ivan Goff, co-creator of the television series ''Charlie's Angels'' and co-writer of the films ''White Heat,'' ''Captain Horatio Hornblower'' and ''Man of a Thousand Faces,'' died on  Thursday at a hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 89 and lived in Malibu. With his writing part
 Karl H. Menges, an authority on the strategically important languages of Central Asian peoples in the former Soviet Union, died on Monday in Vienna. He was 91. Dr. Menges, who picked up new languages almost as casually as most people buy groceries, had been active conducting researc
 Dr. Robert G. Heath, a physician and medical researcher at Tulane University who was best known for his ground-breaking work on schizophrenia, died on Tuesday at his home in St. Petersburg, Fla. He was 84. In 1957, Dr. Heath found a protein antibody called taraxein in the blood of s
 Earnest Hoberecht, an American who became a major literary figure in Japan just after World War II on the strength of some romance novels he wrote in a matter of weeks, died Wednesday at an Oklahoma City hospital. He was 81. He died of heart failure, his wife said. Mr. Hober
 Nicholas Shoumatoff, a nature enthusiast and mountain climber who won praise for a book on Central Asia, died on Sept. 13 at Northern Westchester Hospital Center in Mount Kisco, N.Y. He was 81 and lived in Bedford, N.Y. The cause was complications from a stomach tumor, his family sa
 Stanley Fleishman, a constitutional lawyer involved in several noted First Amendment cases and an advocate for disabled people's rights who was himself disabled by polio, died on Thursday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 79 and lived in Beverly Hills, Calif. The causes were pneu
 Donald G. Sanders, a former Senate lawyer who uncovered the White House tapes that led to President Richard M. Nixon's resignation, died on Sunday at a hospital in Columbia, Mo. He was 69. Mr. Sanders, who lived in Columbia, died of cancer, said his wife, Dolores. A former F
 Paul Hill, the founder of the 160-voice Paul Hill Chorale and a leader in establishing Washington as one of the nation's principal centers for choral singing, died on Monday at his home in Potomac, Md. He was 65. The cause was amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or Lou Gehrig's disease, 
 Frank Ledlie Moore, a composer, filmmaker and author, died on Sunday at the home of his daughter Gabi Moore in Chester, Conn. He was 75. The cause was amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or Lou Gehrig's disease, his daughter said. Mr. Moore's compositions included 10 choral drama
 John R. Crews, who as an Army sergeant in World War II won the Medal of Honor by single-handedly capturing a German automatic-weapons position while severely wounded, died on Saturday in Oklahoma City, his hometown. He was 76. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Sue.       
 Julius R. Lunsford Jr., a trademark lawyer who represented clients like the Coca-Cola Company, Little League baseball and the McIlhenny Company, the producer of Tabasco hot sauce, died Monday of emphysema at a hospice in Atlanta. He was 84 years old. Mr. Lunsford, a graduate of Merc
 Robert Winthrop, an investment banker, philanthropist, sportsman, conservationist and man of many causes, died Saturday at his home in Upper Brookville, N.Y. He was 95. The causes championed by Mr. Winthrop ranged from the Winthrop-University Hospital in Mineola, N.Y., to efforts to
