 Jim Tuppeny, who coached track at Villanova for 13 years and the University of Penn for another 13 and was the director of the Penn Relays for 18 years, died on Wednesday night at his home in Carroll Park, Pa., five miles from the Villanova campus. He was 75. The cause was heart fai
 Lou (the Toe) Groza, one of football's greatest place-kickers and a superb offensive tackle for the Cleveland Browns teams that dominated two leagues during the emergence of the modern professional game, died Wednesday night at a hospital in Middleburgh Heights, Ohio. He was 76. Gro
 Bernard Vorhaus, an American-born film director who made his name in England during the 1930's and who became a victim of the Hollywood blacklist in the 1950's, died on Nov. 23 in London. He was 95. Spurred by the Cinematograph Film Act, passed by Parliament in 1927 to limit imports
 William Barry Furlong, a widely read sports columnist, magazine writer and author, died last Saturday in Silver Spring, Md. He was 73. The cause was complications from leukemia, his family said. Mr. Furlong wrote for The Chicago Daily News and The New York Times Magazine, an
 Jack Hemingway, whose achievements as a conservationist and proficiency as a fisherman were nearly overshadowed by his role as the son of a celebrated father and the father of famous children, died Friday night at Weill Cornell Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 77. He suffered com
 James S. Jones, an architect whose passion was following packs of basset hounds on foot in pursuit of elusive hares, died Nov. 13 at a nursing home in Chester, N.J. He was 86. The son of a real estate developer who in the 1920's sold New Yorkers estates in the rolling countryside of
 Ralph Bates, who fell in love with the idea of Spain as a working-class youth in Britain and went on to write evocative novels about the real Spain in the years before the Spanish Civil War, died on Nov. 26 at his home in Manhattan. He was 101. Almost 60 years ago he was considered 
 Dr. Cyril Clarke, a British physician and professor of medicine whose fascination with butterfly wings led him to pursue research that helped end infant deaths from a blood disease caused by incompatible Rh factors, died on Nov. 21 in Hoylake, Cheshire, England. He was 93. As a gene
 Mario Giacomelli, the Italian photographer perhaps best known for his joyous pictures of young priests reveling in a snowfall, died on Nov. 25 at home in Senigallia, a small town on the shores of the Adriatic Sea, where he had lived all his life and whose farmlands and people were the subje
 Bishop George West Barrett, a former leader of the Episcopal Diocese of Rochester, who ordained four women as Episcopal ministers in 1975, before the Episcopal Church had approved ordaining women, died on Sunday at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 92. The cause was renal fai
 Colin Cowdrey, one of the greatest batsmen in the history of cricket and an important administrator of the sport, died Tuesday at his home in Angmering, West Sussex, England. Cowdrey, who was formally Baron Cowdrey of Tonbridge, died of a heart attack, The Times of London said. He w
 Rabbi Irving Koslowe, the Jewish chaplain at Sing Sing for 49 years who in 1953 counseled and administered last rites to the convicted spies Julius and Ethel Rosenberg, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital after a monthlong illness. He was 80 and lived in Mamaroneck, N.Y. The chap
 Dr. Victor Clarence Vaughan III, a physician, educator and for many years the co-editor of a textbook for generations of fledgling doctors, died on Nov. 30 at Stanford University Hospital. He was 81 and lived in Palo Alto and Carmel Valley, Calif. The cause was complications after a
 Rabbi Irving Koslowe, the Jewish chaplain at Sing Sing for 49 years, who in 1953 counseled the convicted spies Julius and Ethel Rosenberg and led them in their final prayers, died on Wednesday at Mount Sinai Hospital after a monthlong illness. He was 80 and lived in Mamaroneck, N.Y.        
 Rayner S. Unwin, a second-generation publisher who at a very early age recognized the value of an obscure manuscript called ''The Hobbit,'' died on Nov. 23 in a hospice in Berkhamsted, England. He was 74. The cause was cancer, said his son, Merlin Unwin, who is also a publisher.    
 Werner Klemperer, an Emmy Award-winning actor in television, film and theater whose role as the bumbling Nazi Col. Wilhelm Klink on ''Hogan's Heroes'' dominated an eclectic career, died on Wednesday at his home in New York. He was 80. The cause was cancer, said John A. Anderson, his
 H. C. Artmann, an author, poet and leader among Austria's avant-garde, died on Monday at his home in the Josefstadt quarter of Vienna. He was 79. Rebellious not only in a literary sense, he landed in a penal battalion in World War II and then in an American prisoner-of-war camp, whe
 Jim Lansing, an all-American end at Fordham University and a former varsity and club football coach there, died in his sleep last Saturday night at his home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 81. In 1940, when Fordham was a national football power, Lansing helped it to an 8-1 record and a
 John Liscio, who wrote and published The Liscio Report, a financial newsletter, died on Nov. 29 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 51 and lived in Upper Montclair, N.J. The cause was liver and kidney failure related to hepatitis C, said his wife, Frances. Mr. Lisci
 Representative Julian C. Dixon of California, a senior member of the Congressional Black Caucus and the ranking Democrat on the House Select Committee on Intelligence, died today. He was 66. Mr. Dixon, from Los Angeles, died in a hospital there, and House colleagues said the cause w
 Mark Tucker, a professor, musician and jazz scholar who specialized in Duke Ellington, died on Wednesday at his home in Williamsburg, Va. He was 46. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Carol Oja, who said he was a nonsmoker. Mr. Tucker edited ''The Duke Ellington Reade
 Richard E. LeBlond Jr., who left an academic career as a professor of sociology to became an executive in the performing arts and served for 12 years as the San Francisco Ballet's president, died on Nov. 28 at his home in Sebastopol, Calif. He was 76. The cause was cancer, said Larr
 Porter A. McCray, for many years an indispensable figure in the councils of the Museum of Modern Art and an effective player in the international museum scene, died on Dec. 1 in Hightstown, N.J. He was 92. Mr. McCray was vital to the goodwill with which American achievement in high 
 Rupert C. Barneby, a self-taught botanist who described and named 1,160 plant species new to science, died Tuesday at the Jewish Home and Hospital for Aged in the Bronx. He was 89. Mr. Barneby was curator emeritus of the New York Botanical Garden's Institute of Systematic Botany, an
 Clifford Day Mallory Jr., a former trustee, president and chairman of the Mystic Seaport outdoor museum in Mystic, Conn., died Thursday at his home in Stonington, Conn. He was 84. During his tenure the seaport became recognized as the nation's pre-eminent maritime museum. His father
 Less than a year after becoming the spiritual leader of Long Island's 1.4 million Roman Catholics, Bishop James Thomas McHugh, an anti-abortion leader, died yesterday. He was 68. Bishop McHugh, the head of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Rockville Centre, died of liver and gallbladder
 Ruben Klein, a prominent real estate lawyer in the Bronx and Yonkers, died on Dec. 2 at a nursing home in Wayland, Mass. He was 91 and had been a longtime resident of Mount Vernon, N.Y. During most of his career, Mr. Klein managed and owned real estate properties. He was president o
 Vlado Gotovac, a leading dissident in Communist Yugoslavia and a powerful voice for democracy in the independent Croatia of the authoritarian Franjo Tudjman, died on Dec. 7 in Italy after a long illness. His death at age 70 from liver cancer may have been related to a hepatitis B in
 Less than a year after becoming the spiritual leader of Long Island's 1.4 million Roman Catholics, Bishop James Thomas McHugh, an anti-abortion leader, died Sunday at his residence in Rockville Centre. He was 68. Bishop McHugh, the head of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Rockville Cen
 Marvin Leath, a conservative Democrat with an interest in military affairs who served six terms as a congressman from Central Texas, died on Friday at a hospital in Arlington, Va. He was 69 and lived in McLean, Va. He had suffered a heart attack at his home, said his son, Thomas.   
 Eldon Elder, a scenic designer and theatrical consultant who designed the New York Shakespeare Festival's Delacorte Theater in Central Park, died on Monday in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was heart failure, said John P. Engel, a friend. During his 5
 Jack S. Liebowitz, the comic-book publisher whose business acumen helped turn Superman, the creation of two teenage cartoonists, into the most recognizable superhero in the world, died on Monday in Great Neck, N.Y. He was 100 and had homes in Old Westbury, N.Y., and Manhattan. Mr. L
 Thomas M. Keenan, who for 14 years was chairman of the New York Times unit of the Newspaper Guild, died yesterday at Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 60 and lived in Oakland, N.J. The cause was colon cancer, said Barry F. Lipton, the president of the Newspaper Guild of New 
 Dr. Melvin B. Gottlieb, who led an expansion of America's search for fusion energy as the director of a Princeton laboratory in the 1960's and 1970's while promoting international cooperation in scientific research, died on Dec. 1, in Haverford, Pa. He was 83 and lived in Haverford on the o
 Willard Nixon, a right-handed pitcher for the Boston Red Sox in the 1950's who dominated the powerful Yankees in an otherwise unremarkable career, died Sunday at a hospital in Rome, Ga. He was 72. He had Alzheimer's disease, his family said. Pitching for the Red Sox from 195
 George Montgomery, a Westerner to the core, who went from prizefighter to stuntman to cowboy star before turning his energies to sculpture, furniture-making and painting, died on Tuesday at his home in Rancho Mirage, Calif. He was 84. The rugged, soft-spoken actor was also well know
 The Rev. Ndabaningi Sithole, a black nationalist who rose to prominence championing the downfall of Rhodesia's white-minority government and then fell from official favor for denouncing the ruling party he helped to install in what is now Zimbabwe, died on Tuesday. Mr. Sithole, 80, 
 Thomas Babe, the author of ''Kid Champion,'' ''A Prayer for My Daughter'' and other plays, and one of Joseph Papp's most prolific resident playwrights at the New York Shakespeare Festival, died on Dec. 6 in a hospice in Stamford, Conn. He was 59 and lived in Darien, Conn. The cause 
 Dr. Edward H. Ahrens Jr., who showed that saturated and unsaturated fats in the diet had opposite effects on blood cholesterol levels, died Dec. 9 at the Princeton Medical Center in Princeton, N.J. He was 85 and lived in Hightstown, N.J. For several decades, Dr. Ahrens, known as Pet
 John Kobler, a writer whose early days on the crime beat resounded in an enduring biography of Al Capone, died on Monday in Manhattan. He was 90. He was born in Mount Vernon, N.Y., and was a 1931 graduate of Williams College. He worked for various news organizations as a reporter be
 Moses Abramovitz , a former president of the American Economic Association and a leading authority on the causes of growth and business cycles, died Dec. 1 at Stanford University Hospital. He was 88. The cause was complications after he was admitted to the hospital with a gastroente
 Oliver William Wolters, a professor of Southeast Asian history at Cornell University who did pioneering work on the ancient Malay kingdom of Srivijaya, died on Dec. 5 in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 85. Professor Wolters, who retired in 1984 after holding for 10 years the Goldwin Smith chair
 Lionel Rogosin, a documentary filmmaker, died on Dec. 8 in Los Angeles. He was 76. The cause was a heart attack, said his son Daniel. Mr. Rogosin made his debut in the 1950's with ''On the Bowery,'' a tour of New York's notorious Skid Row that was nominated for an Academy Aw
 Charles P. Issawi, an Egyptian-born authority on Middle East economics and history who taught at Princeton and Columbia, died Dec. 8 at a retirement community in Newtown, Pa. He was 84. Professor Issawi was the Bayard E. Dodge Professor of Near Eastern Studies at Princeton from 1975
 Knud W. Jensen, a well-to-do Dane who founded the Louisiana Museum of contemporary art 20 miles north of Copenhagen, died on Tuesday. He was 84 and lived in a wing of the museum, which is on 25 acres of parkland on the Danish coast. Mr. Jensen, a native of Copenhagen whose family ha
 Lionel Rogosin, a documentary filmmaker, died on Dec. 8 in Los Angeles. He was 76. The cause was a heart attack, said his son Daniel. Mr. Rogosin made his debut in the 1950's with ''On the Bowery,'' a tour of New York's notorious Skid Row that was nominated for an Academy Aw
 William Thon, an American landscape painter and watercolorist who continued to work after macular degeneration had left him legally blind, died at his home in Port Clyde, Me., on Dec. 6. He was was 94. Mr. Thon, who was born in Brooklyn, studied briefly at the Art Students League in
 N. Richard Nash, a playful and prolific playwright, screenwriter and novelist whose greatest success was the tender drama ''The Rainmaker,'' died on Dec. 11 in Manhattan. He was 87. Born Nathan Richard Nasbaum, Mr. Nash was raised on the rough-and-tumble south side of Philadelphia a
 Randolph A. Hearst, the last surviving son of the man who shook American journalism and politics in the early part of the 20th century, died yesterday at New York Presbyterian Hospital. In the 1970's, he ran his father's flagship, The San Francisco Examiner, as it covered the kidnapping and
 Valerio Longoria, an accordion player and a prominent early figure in south Texas conjunto music, died on Friday in a nursing home in San Antonio. He was 75 and lived in San Antonio. Conjunto is a hard-driving dance music in which the accordion leads a small band that also includes 
 Jacques Jean Francois Goddet, the founder and for 40 years the editor of the well-known sports newspaper, L'Equipe, and for 40 years the director of the world's most important bicycle race, the Tour de France, died last Friday in Paris. He was 95. The French sports minister, Marie-G
 Onofrio Ottomanelli, who opened a Greenwich Village butcher shop half a century ago that grew into a New York institution, died Friday at St. Vincents Hospital and Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 83. Mr. Ottomanelli, whose motto was ''live, work and trade in the Village,'' disti
 Dr. Robert Hans Goetz, a cardiovascular surgeon who pioneered coronary bypass surgery and devised an arterial pump to sustain a patient's ailing heart, died Friday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 90. Dr. Goetz's career led him from his native Germany to South Africa and on to 
 Diodoros I, who for two decades led the largest and oldest of the Christian churches in the Holy Land as the Greek Orthodox patriarch here, died Tuesday night at the age of 77 after a prolonged illness. As Orthodox priests and other mourners prayed today in the dark, candle-lit chap
 John V. Lindsay, the debonair political irregular who represented Manhattan's Silk Stocking district on the East Side for seven years in Congress and was a two-term mayor of New York during the racial unrest, antiwar protests, municipal strikes and other upheavals of the 1960's and early 70
 Milt Hinton, one of the most recorded musicians of all time and the dean of American bass players, died on Tuesday at Mary Immaculate Hospital in Queens. He was 90 and lived in St. Alban's, Queens. One of the first great bass soloists in jazz, he began his career when the string bas
 Mickey Mantle Jr., who struggled with the expectations accompanying the son of a baseball icon and the travails that afflicted his family far from the public eye, died Wednesday at a hospital in Dallas. He was 47. The cause was complications of cancer, his family said. He ha
 Roebuck (Pops) Staples, whose family gospel group, the Staple Singers, carried message songs to a huge pop audience, died on Tuesday at his home in Dolton, Ill., a Chicago suburb. He was 85. The Staple Singers were Mr. Staples and his children: first a son and two daughters, later t
 Sheldon Ross, who founded the Sheldon Ross Gallery in Birmingham, Mich., and dealt in works by the painter and collagist Romare Bearden and other artists, died on Nov. 12  in Manhattan. He was 75 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Ross, a native of Detroit who was also a real estate invest
 Dr. Stephen A. Mitchell, who played a significant role in shaping the way many modern American psychoanalysts think about and practice their profession, died Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 54. The cause of death had not been determined, but a colleague, Dr. Lewis Aron, sa
 Joseph Heitz, who made one of America's most famous wines and helped put the Napa Valley of California on the map as a source of fine wines made from bordeaux grapes,  died there last Saturday at a hospital in the town of St. Helena. He was 81. The cause of death was not disclosed, 
 Alan Tyson, a British musicologist and psychoanalyst whose works on Haydn, Mozart and Beethoven over the last 40 years are considered among the most important achievements of modern musical scholarship, died on Nov. 10 at Shoreham-by-Sea, in Sussex, England. He was 74. The cause was
 Chen Zhen, a Chinese-born conceptual artist and sculptor who lived in Paris and became a highly visible international art figure during the 1990's, culminating with an appearance at the 1999 Venice Biennale, died on Dec. 13 in Paris. He was 45. The cause was cancer, reported Mr. Che
 Robert Buck, the lead guitarist for the popular alternative-rock band 10,000 Maniacs, died on Tuesday in a hospital in Pittsburgh. He was 42. The cause was liver failure, according to Blair Woods, the band's publicist, who said Mr. Buck died at the University of Pittsburgh Medical C
 Seymour Hacker, whose 57th Street bookstore, Hacker Art Books, was a well-known fixture of both the art and book worlds for more than 50 years, died on Tuesday in New York. He was 83. A small, bright-eyed man fluent in four languages, Mr. Hacker was one of the last booksellers to le
 Victor Borge, the irrepressible musical humorist, pianist and conductor saluted all over the world as ''the comedian of the keyboard'' and ''the unmelancholy Dane,'' died yesterday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 91. Mr. Borge made Broadway history in the 1950's when his show
 Dr. Kenneth Merle Brinkhous, a pathologist who helped develop a treatment for hemophilia, died on Dec. 11 at his home in Chapel Hill, N.C., where he was a professor emeritus at the University of North Carolina Medical School. He was 92. Dr. Brinkhous's research on blood clotting beg
 Myron A. Minskoff, a real estate executive who oversaw the construction of sizable business and residential buildings in New York and other cities, died on Dec. 17 at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 83 and also had homes in Palm Beach, Fla., and Southampton, N.Y.       
 Thomas K. Turnage, who served in the Reagan administration as the director of the Selective Service System and as administrator of what was then the Veterans Administration, died on Dec. 10 at his home in Rancho Mirage, Calif. He was 77. The cause was cancer. General Turnage
 Victor Borge, the irrepressible musical humorist, pianist and conductor saluted all over the world as ''the comedian of the keyboard'' and ''the unmelancholy Dane,'' died Saturday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 91. Mr. Borge made Broadway history in the 1950's when his show,
 Zack Carr III, a fashion designer who became creative director at Calvin Klein Inc., died at St. Vincents Hospital and Medical Center in Manhattan on Thursday. He was 55. The cause was a rare cancer, according to the company. Mr. Carr joined Calvin Klein in 1970, a few years
 Barney McNulty, who is generally credited with being the first person to use cue cards on television, died on Dec. 18 at his home in Studio City, Calif. He was 77. He apparently died of a heart attack, his wife, Jill, said. Mr. McNulty first exhibited his knack for turning s
 Daniel C. Dunham, an architect and an expert on city planning who specialized in designs for the tropics, died on Dec. 19 in New York, where he lived. He was 71. The cause of death was heart failure, said his wife, Mary Frances. Mr. Dunham was a professor of architecture and
 Edson Mitchell, an American who became one of the most powerful executives of Deutsche Bank of Germany, died Friday in a plane crash. Mr. Mitchell, 47, who lived most of the year in London, was the sole passenger in a Beech 200 aircraft flying from Portland, Me., to his vacation home in Ran
 Dr. Marius Berthus Jansen, an American scholar of Japanese history and culture, died on Dec. 10 at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 78. Dr. Jansen was the author, co-author or editor of 20 books, and wrote in English and Japanese. His latest volume, summing up much of his work, ''
 Robert H. Wiebe, an authority on American political and social history who had taught at Northwestern University, died on Dec. 10 at a hospital in Evanston, Ill. He was 70 and lived in Evanston. The cause was a stroke, said his wife, Penny Whiteside. Professor Wiebe, a co-au
 Steve D'Inzillo, former chief officer of New York Projectionists Local 306 of the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees, died on Oct. 13 at his home in Portland, Ore., where he had lived since the late 1980's. He was 90. Between 1933, when he joined the local, and 195
 Thomas George Yohe, co-creator of the quirky but durable cartoon tutorial ''Schoolhouse Rock,'' died on Wednesday at his home in Norwalk, Conn. He was 63. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said George Newall, his creative partner. A generation of children picked up the fundam
 Jason Robards, who reclaimed the legacy of Eugene O'Neill and became one of the most powerful and important actors on the American stage and screen, died yesterday at Bridgeport Hospital in Connecticut. He was 78. Mr. Robards, who lived in Southport, Conn., died of complications fro
 Joe Gilliam, who was one of the first blacks to be a starting pro quarterback when he played for the Pittsburgh Steelers' 1974 Super Bowl champions but who later slid into drug addiction and homelessness, died Monday in Nashville. He was 49. Gilliam was pronounced dead upon arrival 
 John Cooper, an automotive engineer and a sports-car driver who created the chic vehicle of London's Swinging Sixties, the Mini Cooper, died on Sunday at his home in Worthing, West Sussex. He was 77 and had cancer. The tiny high-performance sedan became the favored car of the rock s
 Rudi Gassner, a former professional soccer player who became one of the world's top music industry executives, died on Saturday, just days before he was to take over BMG Entertainment, the music division of Bertelsmann. He was 58. The cause was a heart attack, BMG executives said. M
 Benjamin Karp, a portrait sculptor whose works have been exhibited at the Metropolitan Museum of Art and other major institutions throughout the world, died on Dec. 3 at his home in Hoosick Falls, N.Y. He was 94. Mr. Karp graduated summa cum laude in physics from Syracuse University
 Felix Popper, a conductor who was for many years the music administrator at the New York City Opera, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 92. Mr. Popper was born in Vienna in 1908 and earned a doctorate in law and political science from the University of Vienna while also
 Dr. Herman Feshbach, a nuclear physicist who helped develop the theories underlying the behavior of the nuclei of atoms and later became active in the antinuclear movement, died on Friday at a hospital in Cambridge, Mass., where he lived. He was 83. The cause was congestive heart fa
 Prof. Louis Leprince-Ringuet, a French nuclear physicist who was the first to spot evidence of a new type of subatomic particle, died Saturday at his home in Paris, just three months shy of his 100th birthday. Professor Leprince-Ringuet was one of the world's leading researchers in 
 The Rev. John Wesley Rice Jr., who rose from the segregated South to become a minister and university leader, died on Sunday in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 77 and the father of Condoleezza Rice, who was recently selected by President-elect George W. Bush to be his national security adviser.   
 Levi Jackson, a star running back whose selection as Yale's first black football captain in November 1948 drew national attention as a symbol of racial progress in American life, died on Dec. 7 at his home in Detroit. He was 74. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family sai
 Vincent Palumbo, a fifth-generation Italian stone carver who rose to master carver at the National Cathedral, died Dec. 21 at Washington Hospital Center in Washington. He was 64. A cathedral spokesman said Mr. Palumbo died of complications from amyloidosis, a degenerative condition 
 W. V. Quine, a logician and Harvard philosophy professor whose analysis of language and its relation to reality made him one of the most influential philosophers of the 20th century, died on Monday at a hospital in  Boston, where he lived. He was 92. As a mathematical logician who w
 Dr. George Edward Wantz, a New York surgeon known for his innovative approach to hernia operations, died on Dec. 15 at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 77. The cause was complications from a spinal cord injury he had suffered in a fall, his family said. A
 Martin Prinz, who until a few months ago stood watch over the outstanding collection of meteorites accumulated by the American Museum of Natural History, died Dec. 16 at an extended-care center in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 69 and lived in Great Neck, N.Y. The cause was cancer, the muse
 Sam Savitt, a prolific freelance artist, author and illustrator who specialized in depicting horses, died on Monday at his home in North Salem, N.Y. He was 83. For more than a half-century, Mr. Savitt painted and drew horses in oil and with watercolors, charcoal, ink and other media
 Stanley Blacker, a prominent maker of men's clothing who stitched his name to labels sold at upscale department stores across the country and overseas, died Monday at New York University Medical Center. He was 79 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause was cancer co
 Ronald G. Pisano, a curator, art historian and collector and an authority on the work of the 19th-century American painter William Merritt Chase, died on Dec. 11 in Manhattan. He was 51 and had homes in New York City and Southampton, N.Y. He died of esophageal cancer, said Fred Bake
