 Charles Allan Gerhardt, a record producer who recorded many of the great classical music performers of the 1950's and 1960's and who also conducted a series of classic film-score albums, died on Feb. 22 at Mercy Hospital in Redding, Calif. He was 72 and lived in Redding. Robert E. B
 Charles M. Beeghly, a steel executive who began his career as a salesman and rose to be chairman and chief executive of the Jones & Laughlin Steel Corporation, died on Feb. 18 at his home in Delray Beach, Fla. He was 90 years old. The cause of death was a heart attack, said his brot
 David H. Smith, a researcher and entrepreneur who helped figure out a way to coax even the immature immune system of an infant into mounting a defense against a bacterium that causes meningitis, died on Tuesday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 67 and also lived on Mar
 Howie Haak, a pioneer of baseball scouting in Latin America and a key figure in the Pittsburgh Pirates' snaring of the future Hall of Famer Roberto Clemente from the Brooklyn Dodgers' farm system, died on Feb. 22 in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 87 and a baseball scout for nearly a half-centu
 Hughie Lee-Smith, a painter best known for his emblematic figurative scenes, died on Tuesday in a hospice in Albuquerque, N.M. He was 83. Mr. Lee-Smith's paintings usually have spare settings suggestive of theater stages or bleak urban or seaside landscapes. Walls stretch out under 
 Viscount Eccles, a bookish British businessman turned Conservative politician who served in the Cabinets of four Prime Ministers without quite breaking through to the top ranks he had seemed destined for, died on Wednesday. He was 94 and had ended his public career as head of the independen
 Bill Talbert, a legendary doubles champion who defied diabetes and went on to wear many hats and gain 33 national titles over six decades of tennis prominence, died Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 80. Talbert had been in declining health since sustaining a broken shoulder an
 Harry L. Rossoll, a Forest Service illustrator whose ''Smokey Says'' newspaper cartoons helped make Smokey Bear almost as famous as Santa Claus and an almost universally recognized symbol of forest fire safety, died last Thursday at a hospital near his home in Atlanta. He was 89. Mr
 Horace Tapscott, whose accomplishments as a jazz pianist and band leader were matched by his legacy as a local community organizer, died on Saturday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 64. The cause was cancer, his manager and publicist, Corine Hunter, said. Few jazz musician
 Norman Kotker, a novelist and historian, died on Feb. 24 at his home in Northampton, Mass. He was 67. The cause was pneumonia after years of multiple sclerosis, said his wife, the novelist Zane Kotker. Mr. Kotker was the author of ''Herzl the King'' and three other novels, '
 Richard R. Shinn, a retired chairman of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, who was active in the arts and civic affairs and helped stave off New York City's fiscal crisis in the 1970's, died Friday at his home in Greenwich, Conn., after a long battle with leukemia. He was 81. 
 Buzz Miller, a dancer who was equally at home on Broadway and in contemporary ballet and modern dance, died on Feb. 23 at his home in Manhattan. He was 75. The cause was emphysema, said his doctor, Dr. Kenneth Unger. Mr. Miller was especially associated with the quirky jazz-
 Otumfuo Opoku Ware II, the traditional King of the Asante people, has died in his palace in Kumasi, Ghana, the ancient capital of the Asante, who once ruled a powerful and complex political confederation in West Africa. He was 79. Officials confirmed his death but did not give a dat
 Allen Wardwell, director of the Asia Society Galleries in New York from 1974-84 and a prominent authority on primitive art of many kinds, died on Monday while on vacation in Colorado. He was 64 and lived in Manhattan. The cause of death was a heart attack, his family said. B
 Evan Welling Thomas 2d, a book editor who published dozens of books,  including John F. Kennedy's ''Profiles in Courage,'' died Saturday at the Preston Health Center in Hilton Head, S.C. He was 78. The cause was complications from multiple sclerosis, said his son, Evan Thomas 3d.   
 Justice Harry A. Blackmun, a modest Midwestern Republican who became a passionate defender of the right to abortion in 24 years on the Supreme Court, died today at the age of 90. Justice Blackmun, who retired from the Court five years ago, died of complications after hip replacement
 Paul Lepercq, a businessman who served as chairman of the board of the Brooklyn Academy of Music from 1971 to 1976, died on Saturday at the Hopital St. Louis in Paris. He was 77 and had homes in Paris and Bermuda. The cause was lymphatic cancer, said his company, Lepercq, de Neufliz
 Elbridge T. Gerry, a banker, polo star and breeder of harness horses that twice won the Hambletonian, died on Feb. 26 at his home in Delhi, N.Y. He was 90. Mr. Gerry, known as Ebby, was a partner in the private banking firm of Brown Brothers Harriman & Company and came from a family
 Lord Denning, whose bent for favoring the relaxed precepts of common sense over the starchier ones of common law earned him the nickname the People's Judge, died today at Hampshire County Hospital in Winchester. He was 100. He rose to prominence as the person in charge of the inquir
 Richard Kiley, who won a Tony Award for his compelling performance as Don Quixote in the Broadway musical ''Man of La Mancha'' and was for 40 years one of theater's most distinguished and versatile actors, died yesterday at Horton Hospital in Middletown, N.Y. He was 76 and lived in Warwick,
 Dr. Franklin Seaney Cooper, a pioneer in speech research whose work was later applied to computerized speech synthesis, died on Feb. 20 in Palo Alto, Calif., where he lived. He was 90 years old. Much of his work was theoretical and seemed arcane. But in 1973, he served on a panel wi
 Leopold H. Just, a Latvian-born sojourner who came to New York to study medicine, took an engineering detour through Brooklyn and ended up building highways and bridges all over the world, died on Feb. 25 at a nursing home in Newport, R.I. He was 95 and as a partner in the Ammann & Whitney 
 Michael Higgins, a pioneer designer of glass, died at his home in Riverside, Ill., on Feb. 13. He was 90. Since gaining prominence in the 1940's, the Higgins name has come to stand for technologically daring glass, objects with bold textures, saturated colors and patterns inspired b
 Nathaniel Samuels, an investment banker who served as Deputy Under Secretary of State for Economic Affairs in the Nixon Administration, died at his home in Manhattan on Tuesday, his family said. He was 90. Mr. Samuels, who had been an early proponent of global markets and was instru
 The Emir of Bahrain, Sheik Isa bin Salman al-Khalifa, who collapsed and died today at 65, shaped his country into an important ally of the West during nearly four decades in power. Bahraini officials said the cause of death was a heart attack, which the Emir suffered at his palace i
 T. Norman Hurd, a New York State budget director under Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller and the Governor's close confidant, died on  Feb. 27 at his home in Loudonville, N.Y., a suburb of Albany. He was 88. Dr. Hurd, who earned his doctorate in agricultural business management at Corne
 Prof. David Daube, an eminent authority on legal history who was best known for his writings on Talmudic law, other biblical law and Roman law, died on Feb. 24 in Oak Park Convalescent Hospital in Pleasant Hill, Calif. He was 90 and had lived in San Francisco for many years. Profess
 Deane F. Johnson, an entertainment-industry lawyer and corporate executive prominent in nonprofit institutions, died on Feb. 28 at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 80. He had a long illness, according to an announcement of his death by the Los Angeles-based law firm O'Melven
 Richard Goldberg, a longtime executive of the American Contract Bridge League, died yesterday at his home in Nashville, Tenn. He was 76. He died after suffering a heart attack, said his daughter, Joan Conroy, also of Nashville. Mr. Goldberg was executive secretary and genera
 Prof. Ronald Willetts, a British authority on life in ancient Crete, died on Feb. 19 in Birmingham, England. He was 83. His death was reported on Saturday by The Independent. Professor Willetts retired in 1981 from Birmingham University, where he had taught for 35 years and 
 Stanley Kubrick, the famously reclusive director of such classic films as ''Dr. Strangelove,'' ''2001: A Space Odyssey'' and ''A Clockwork Orange,'' died yesterday at his home in England, his family said. He was 70. The police were summoned to Mr. Kubrick's rural home in Hertfordshi
 The Rev. W. Frank Harrington, senior minister of the largest Presbyterian (U.S.A.) church in North America, died on Wednesday of cardiorespiratory failure at Emory Hospital in Atlanta. He was 63. Mr. Harrington's church, Peachtree Presbyterian of Atlanta, grew significantly during h
 Joe DiMaggio, the flawless center fielder for the New York Yankees who, along with Babe Ruth and Mickey Mantle, symbolized the team's dynastic success across the 20th century and whose 56-game hitting streak in 1941 made him an instant and indelible American folk hero, died early today at h
 John D. Lusk, a real-estate developer who played a major role in transforming rural Southern California into suburbs after World War II, died on Feb. 28 at his home in Laguna Beach, Calif. He was 91. Mr. Lusk began his career in banking, ultimately becoming vice president of a Secur
 Wayne Berg, an architect who helped reinvigorate modernism in the last decade with his sleekly sensual forms, died at home in Manhattan on Feb. 25. He was 52. The cause was a brain tumor, said his wife, Ann Hutchens Berg. From such early buildings as the brooding Gallatin Co
 William L. McGonagle, who as a Navy captain won a Medal of Honor for maintaining control of the technical research ship Liberty although wounded when the ship was attacked by Israel in the 1967 Arab-Israeli war, died on Wednesday in his home in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 73. Donald
 Eric R. Wolf, an accidental anthropologist whose cultural studies of Latin American peoples and European peasants helped enrich an already eclectic field even as he challenged some established cultural assumptions, died on Sunday at his home in Irvington, N.Y. He was 76 and had taught at Le
 John Leland Atwood, an engineer who rose through the executive ranks at North American Aviation as it built the P-51 Mustang, the most powerful fighter plane of World War II; the F-100 Super Sabre, the first supersonic fighter, and the Apollo capsule that took men to the moon, died on March
 Sidney Gottlieb, who presided over the Central Intelligence Agency's cold-war efforts to control the human mind and provided the agency poisons to kill Fidel Castro, died on Sunday in Washington, Va. He was 80 and had spent his later years caring for dying patients, trying to run a commune,
 Charles J. Elia, 72, a retired business reporter and columnist, died Sunday after a heart attack at his home in Brightwaters, N.Y., said his son, Ricardo Elia of Medford, Mass. In the 1960's, he worked for The New York World-Telegram and The Sun, The Wall Street Journal and The Dail
 Dr. Philip Strax, a radiologist whose early and passionate advocacy of the mammogram helped revolutionize breast-cancer detection, died on Tuesday at a daughter's home in Bethesda, Md. He was 90. A general practitioner with a small family practice in Manhattan, Dr. Strax was spurred
 Hermann Merkin, a private investor and philanthropist for whom Merkin Concert Hall is named, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 91. Mr. Merkin was born in Germany in 1907 and fled from the Nazis with his family. Soon after he arrived in New York in 1940, he joined the 
 Harry Ford, whose unerring ear and impeccable taste made him one of the nation's leading poetry editors, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 80. Friends said the cause was apparently a heart attack. In a nation in which poetry is more revered than read, Mr. Ford 
 Martin R. Shugrue Jr., an airline executive who played a pivotal and at times controversial role in unsuccessful attempts to keep Pan American World Airways and, later, Eastern Airlines from failing, died on Sunday. He was 58 years old. Mr. Shugrue died at his home in Houston of a s
 William Wrigley, chief executive of the Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company and the heir of  the chewing gum family that once owned the Chicago Cubs baseball team, died Monday after a brief bout of pneumonia. He was 66. The Wrigley company announced the death in a terse, one-sentence statement,
 Herman L. Weisman, a lawyer who was prominent in American Zionist organizations, died on Sunday at the Hospice of Palm Beach County, Fla. He was 95 and lived in Palm Beach County. Mr. Weisman was president of the Zionist Organization of America from 1970 to 1974, at a time when it h
 Robert I. Postel, a maverick Democratic New York City Councilman in the early 1970's who conducted a brief, unsuccessful campaign for mayor, died on March 6 at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 59 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Postel died after a 15-month struggle with canc
 Sir Yehudi Menuhin, the legendary violinist who came to prominence in his childhood as a virtuoso in velvet knee pants and later became a respected conductor, a dedicated organizer of festivals and schools and an idealistic supporter of hundreds of charities, died yesterday at Martin Luther
 Stefan Albrecht Riesenfeld, an international law expert who taught at the University of California and helped frame the Constitution for West Germany after World War II, died on Feb. 17 at Alta Bates Hospital in Berkeley, Calif. He was 90 and lived in Berkeley. Professor Riesenfeld,
 Andre Gilbert Ernotte, a playwright, filmmaker and director of stage, television and opera productions in New York and Europe, died on March 8 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 55 and lived in Manhattan. He had liver disease and died of heart failure while awaiting a live
 Sir Arnold Machin, a master British sculptor who upstaged his distinguished career with a single bas-relief bust that became one of the world's most reproduced images, died on Monday at his home in Staffordshire, England. He was 87 and had designed the portrait of Queen Elizabeth II that ha
 Garson Kanin, who broke into show business as a saxophone-playing high school dropout and went on to write ''Born Yesterday,'' direct ''The Diary of Anne Frank'' and become the co-writer of two classic Tracy-Hepburn movies, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 86. He died
 Gershon Legman, a self-taught scholar of dirty jokes and bawdy limericks and ballads who played a pivotal role in opening up the field of erotic folklore to scholarly study in the 1960's and 70's, died on Feb. 23 at a hospital near his home in Opio, France. He was 81. Mr. Legman is 
 Lowell Fulson, a major figure in West Coast blues, died March 6 in Long Beach, Calif. He was 77 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was complications from kidney disease, diabetes and congestive heart failure, said his companion, Tina Mayfield. Mr. Fulson took the smooth, ja
 Wolf Ulrich von Hassell, a former West German ambassador to the United Nations who helped the German resistance to Hitler during World War II and oversaw his country's post-war transition to full membership in international organizations, died at his home in Southampton, N.Y., on March 3.  
 Garson Kanin, who broke into show business as a saxophone-playing high school dropout and went on to write ''Born Yesterday,'' direct ''The Diary of Anne Frank'' and become the co-writer of two classic Tracy-Hepburn movies, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 86. He di
 Commodore William E. Warwick, a grizzled Cunard mariner who became first master of the last great ocean liner, died in England on Feb. 27. He was 86 and had commanded the Queen Elizabeth 2 on her maiden voyage 30 years ago. When the QE2, as the ship is known, sailed into New York ha
 Del Close, an actor, improvisational comic and mentor to such comedians as John Belushi, John Candy and Bill Murray, died on March 4 at Illinois Masonic Hospital in Chicago. He was 64 and lived in Chicago. The cause was emphysema, said Charna Halpern, his partner for the last 15 yea
 E. Lynn Turgeon, a longtime professor of economics at Hofstra University, died last Wednesday at University Hospital in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 78. The cause was cardiac arrest, said his daughter, Kim Turgeon. Dr. Turgeon, who taught at Hofstra for 33 years before retiring i
 Robert Quarles Marston, a leading medical educator and researcher who fought for the separation of science and politics while he directed the National Institutes of Health in the Nixon Administration, died on Sunday at a hospice in Gainesville, Fla. He was 76 and had lived on a farm in near
 Sydney Lewis, a leading collector of contemporary art, Art Nouveau and Art Deco, and a major benefactor of the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts in Richmond, died on Friday at Medical College of Virginia Hospitals in Richmond. He was 79 and had been ill for some time, his family said. Wi
 C. Clyde Atkins, a former chief judge of the Federal District Court in Miami, died last Thursday at Mercy Hospital in Miami. A resident of Miami, he was 84. The cause was colon cancer, said his secretary, Diana Johnson-Martin. Judge Atkins, a nominee of President Lyndon B. J
 Stefan Schnabel, an actor known for his portrayal of Middle European characters onstage, in films and on television, died last Thursday at his home in Rogaro, Italy. He was 87. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, the actress Marion Kohler Schnabel. With his wavy man
 Harry Callahan, a photographer whose pictures married the elegant precision of American modernists like Ansel Adams with the restless experimental spirit of European modernists like Laszlo Moholy-Nagy, died on Monday at his home in Atlanta. He was 86. Mr. Callahan was something of a
 Arthur Doak Barnett, a leading scholar and government adviser on China, died on Monday at Georgetown Hospital in Washington. He was 77. The cause was respiratory failure, the family said, and friends said he also had lung cancer. Born to missionary parents in Shanghai in 1921, Mr. B
 Walter Decker Scott, who stepped down as chairman of NBC in 1974 after a 36-year career that spanned the heyday of network radio and TV's golden age, died on March 12 at Carmel Valley Manor, a retirement home in Carmel, Calif. He was 84. The cause was complications from pneumonia, N
 Bob Cato, a ground-breaking graphic designer who helped turn the record album cover into an important form of contemporary art, died yesterday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 75 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, said his wife, Kate
 Dr. Gerhard Herzberg, winner of the 1971 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for research into the structure of molecules, died on March 3 at his home in Ottawa. He was 94. Dr. Herzberg was known as the creator of modern molecular spectroscopy, which uses optical instruments to measure the cha
 Jean Pierre-Bloch, a French Resistance figure, high-ranking member of de Gaulle's Free French movement during World War II and spokesman for human rights causes, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Paris. He was 93. Mr. Pierre-Bloch, a Socialist member of the prewar French Parliament
 Dr. Jule Eisenbud, a psychiatrist, author and researcher best known for his interest in parapsychology,  died on March 10 in Denver. He was 90. Dr. Eisenbud did research in many areas of psychiatry, psychoanalysis, anthropology and hypnosis during his career, but he came to prominen
 Ray Forrest, who worked for many years at his family's jewelry store in Paterson, N.J., died on March 11 at a hospital near his home in Kinnelon, N.J. He was 83 and all but forgotten as the man who became a hero to hundreds in 1939 as the nation's first television personality. If Mr
 Valentino D. B. Mazzia, who was a pioneer in the investigation of operating room deaths in New York and who also served as chairman of the department of anesthesiology at the New York University School of Medicine, died on March 10 at Mount Sinai Hospital. Dr. Mazzia, who held degrees in me
 Dave Longaberger, a born basket weaver and business visionary who figured out that the way to make basket weaving pay was to get a lot of other people to do the weaving and a lot more to do the selling, died on Wednesday at his home outside Newark, Ohio. He was 64 and had turned a small bas
 George E. Reedy, a thoughtful reporter who served both as Lyndon B. Johnson's press secretary and as one of his private whipping boys, died today at the St. John's Tower nursing home in Milwaukee. He was 81 and had lived for many years in Milwaukee, where he was on the faculty of Marquette 
 Jaime Sabines Gutierrez, the poet whose lyrical hymns about desire and loss were embraced and recited by generations of Mexicans, died at his home here on Friday at 72. The cause was cancer complicated by infections after a fall in 1989, family members said. Although he shun
 Dr. Russell Ross, a medical researcher whose theories radically changed the understanding of why arteries harden, died on Thursday at the University of Washington Medical Center in Seattle. He was 69 and lived in Seattle. Dr. Ross had been suffering from cancer, his family said.    
 Dr. Aubre de Lambert Maynard, an authority on surgery to treat heart, chest and abdominal wounds who was credited with saving the life of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. after he was stabbed in 1958, died Saturday at his home on the Lower East Side of Manhattan. He was 97. Dr. M
 Jack Tarver, who used his influence as publisher of The Atlanta Journal and The Atlanta Constitution in the 1960's and early 1970's to protect Ralph McGill, The Constitution's Pulitzer Prize-winning editor, from bitter complaints about his support for the civil rights movement, died of a he
 Melvin Blake, an oral surgeon whose collection of figurative art formed the opening exhibition at the Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao, Spain, died on March 14 at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 71. The cause was melanoma, said Emily Blake, his niece. Dr. 
 Patrick Heron, prominent in Britain since the 1940's as an abstract painter and as a vigorous critic and advocate in the international art world, died on Saturday at his home near St. Ives in Cornwall, England. He was 79. Sir Nicholas Serota, director of the Tate Gallery in London, 
 David Strickland, an actor who regularly appeared on the television comedy ''Suddenly Susan'' and had a supporting role in the recently released film ''Forces of Nature'' was found dead on Monday in a Las Vegas motel room. He was 29. The police said the death appeared to be a suicid
 Milton S. Gould, a classicist turned storied courtroom litigator who for years played the scholarly Mr. Inside to William A. Shea's gregarious Mr. Outside as a managing partner of one of New York City's most politically connected and ethnically balanced law firms, died on Sunday at his home
 Sir Michael Caine, a corporate chief with a love of books who was the driving force behind the Booker Prize for Fiction, Britain's most prestigious literary award, died of cancer on Saturday in London. He was 71. Modeled on France's Prix Goncourt, the prize was founded in 1968  when
 Faneuil Adams Jr., one of America's premier patrons and aficionados of chess and its top players, died Monday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 75. The cause was a brain tumor, his family said. Mr. Adams, who learned the game as a child and played it al
 George C. S. Benson, an author of books on American politics and government who in 1946 was the founding president of what is now Claremont McKenna College, died on Monday at the Pilgrim Place nursing home in Claremont, Calif. He was 91 and lived in Claremont. Mr. Benson, who was al
 Howell T. Conant Sr., a photographer best known for his pictures of Princess Grace of Monaco, died on March 11 at his home in Carefree, Ariz. He was 83 and also had a home on Block Island, R.I. Mr. Conant was working as a fashion photographer in 1955 when he was commissioned by Phot
 Roy Lee Johnson, the Navy admiral who oversaw what the Government said were defensive attacks against North Vietnamese torpedo boats in the Gulf of Tonkin in 1964, died on Saturday in Virginia Beach, Va. He was 93. What became known as the Gulf of Tonkin incident led to major United
 Wilbur Louis Pritchard, a telecommunications engineer who became the founding director of the Communications Satellite Corporation's Comsat research laboratories in 1967, died on March 18 at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md. Mr. Pritchard, who lived in Bethesda, was 75. The cause w
 George (Birdie) Tebbetts, a bright, pragmatic baseball man whose major league career encompassed 14 years as a catcher, 11 as a manager and 28 as a scout, died Wednesday in Sunrise Rehabilitation Center in Bradenton, Fla. He was 86. Tebbetts played for the Detroit Tigers (1936-47, m
 Cal Ripken Sr., a gruff, single-minded baseball person and the only one to manage two sons on the same major league team, died yesterday at Johns Hopkins Oncology Center in Baltimore. He was 63. Ripken, who lived in Aberdeen, Md., had been treated for lung cancer. With the B
 Henry V. Graham, the National Guard general who told Gov. George C. Wallace to step aside and allow the first black students to enter a University of Alabama building in 1963, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Birmingham, Ala. He was 82. ''He will always be known as the man who st
 Adm. William Floyd Bringle, a highly decorated aviator who commanded naval air forces in Europe and the Pacific in World War II, died on March 19 at Scripps Memorial Hospital in San Diego. He was 85 and lived in Rancho Santa Fe, Calif. Admiral Bringle, who was born in Covington, Ten
 Arthur E. Raymond, whose career spanned the years between biplanes and the first lunar landing but who was best known for leading the team that designed the DC-3, one of commercial aviation's most durable workhorses, died on Monday at St. John's Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was two d
 Jean Guitton, a French Catholic philosopher and author and a friend of popes and French presidents, died on Sunday in Val-de-Grace Hospital in Paris. He was 97 and had homes in Paris and in Bellegarde-en-Marche, France. Professor Guitton, a layman, held university professorships in 
 Vladimir Petrov, who survived six years in a Soviet prison camp and later became a professor of international affairs at George Washington University, died on March 17 in his home in Kensington, Md., a suburb of Washington. He was 83. The cause of his death was brain cancer, his fam
 Doug Edelson, a correspondent for 28 years for 1010 WINS, the New York news radio station, died on Friday at a Fort Lauderdale, Fla., hospital. He was 75 and lived in Florida and Pennsylvania after retiring from WINS in 1992. He died of a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Edelson w
 Dr. John L. Madden, whose groundbreaking work helped advance the field of vascular surgery, died Thursday at the Wartburg, a nursing home in Mount Vernon, N.Y. He was 86, and had been living in Pelham Manor, N.Y. Dr. Madden, a former director of surgery at St. Clare's Hospital and H
 George William Staempfli, founder of Staempfli Gallery in Manhattan, died on Thursday at the Anne Arundel Medical Center in Annapolis, Md. He was 89. Mr. Staempfli was born in Bern, Switzerland, in 1910 and moved to the United States in 1935, taking a job at M. Knoedler & Company in
 Dr. Morton S. Bryer, an expert in infectious diseases who helped develop antibiotics like Aureomycin as a young researcher, died on March 20 at Cape Cod Hospital in Hyannis, Mass. A former resident of Manhattan, he was 82 and lived in Chatham, Mass. Dr. Bryer spent more than 30 year
 Roy M. Fisher, a former editor of The Chicago Daily News and former dean of the University of Missouri School of Journalism, died on Thursday at a hospice in Evanston, Ill. He was 80 and lived in Wilmette, Ill. Mr. Fisher was dean of Missouri's journalism school from 1971 to 1982. I
 Theodore (Teddy) McRae, a composer and arranger who worked with such jazz artists as Artie Shaw, Sy Oliver and Chick Webb, died on March 4 at his home in Manhattan. He was 91. Mr. McRae's hits included ''Back Bay Shuffle'' (1938) and ''Traffic Jam'' (1939), both written with Mr. Sha
 It was as exotic an offer as a young college graduate could imagine. Michael Aris, freshly out of Durham University with an honors degree in modern history, was invited to become the private tutor of the children of the royal family of the remote Himalayan Kingdom of Bhutan. In the 
 Albert Gollin, a sociologist and public opinion researcher who earned an international reputation for his studies of newspaper advertising and readership trends, died March 24 at his home in Manhattan. He was 68. His death came after a long battle with multiple systems degeneration,
 Joe Williams, whose urbane bass-baritone and suavely heartbroken songs made him one of the most important singers in jazz, died on Monday in Las Vegas, Nev. He was 80 years old. Mr. Williams collapsed on a city street a few blocks from his home after walking out of Sunrise Hospital,
