 Bernard Johnson, a dancer, choreographer and fashion and costume designer, died on Jan. 22 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 60 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from pneumonia, his family said. Mr. Johnson was something of a Renaissance
 Charles E. Inniss, a retired vice president of the Brooklyn Union Gas Company and the chairman of the Bedford-Stuyvesant Restoration Corporation, died on Thursday at Memorial-Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. Mr. Inniss, who lived in the Clinton Hill section of Brooklyn, was 61.  
 George W. Mitchell, a former vice chairman of the Federal Reserve Board and tireless promoter of electronic banking, died last Saturday at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 92 and lived in Arlington, Va. The cause was a heart attack, the Arlington Funeral Home sai
 John P. Mohr, the crusty, poker-playing F.B.I. official who became a member of J. Edgar Hoover's inner circle and later played a central role in the mysterious disappearance of Hoover's legendary files on politicians, died last Saturday at a hospital near his home in Arlington, Va. He was 8
 Thomas M. Belk, the president of Belk Stores Services, a quietly run department store chain in Charlotte, N.C., died at Presbyterian Hospital there last Saturday. Mr. Belk, who was 71, suffered complications following gallbladder surgery, according to his secretary, Susan Blount. Mr
 Dr. Carlton B. Goodlett, a family doctor who built a small San Francisco weekly tabloid into an influential newspaper chain and used his power as publisher to campaign for civil rights, died at his home in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, on Saturday. He was 82. The cause was Parkinson's disease
 Representative Frank Tejeda of Texas, a high school dropout who used the Marine Corps as a springboard out of the San Antonio slums and into an eventual seat in Congress, died on Thursday at the home of his former wife, Cecelia, in San Antonio. He was 51 and had represented the heavily Hisp
 Herb Caen, whose 60-year journalism career was devoted to doting on San Francisco and whose affections were more than amply requited by legions of ardent readers, died this morning at the California Pacific Medical Center here. Mr. Caen, who was 80, told readers in May that he had inoperabl
 John E. Tobin, a retired corporate lawyer and founding partner in the New York office of Dorsey & Whitney of Minneapolis, died on Jan. 19 at Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 73 and lived in Ho-Ho-Kus, N.J. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. Mr. Tobin, a gra
 Joseph Jablow, professor emeritus of anthropology at Brooklyn College and chairman of the department from 1971 to his retirement in 1977, died on Jan. 20 at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 82. He died after a long illness, his family said. Dr. Jablow, wh
 Michael Braun, one of the producers of the musical ''Titanic,'' scheduled to open at the Lunt-Fontanne Theater in April, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 60. The cause was heart failure, said his sister, Kathy Braun. Mr. Braun was born in New York City and gra
 Mikel Cardinal Koliqi of Albania, who spent decades in confinement during the rigidly Stalinist era of his homeland, died on Tuesday in Shkoder. He was 94. Cardinal Koliqi regained his freedom in 1986 after a total of 38 years in jails and labor camps. Pope John Paul II, who elevate
 Philip Chasin, a professional fund raiser for Jewish causes and Israel, died on Monday at St. Barnabas Hospital in Livingston, N.J. He was 87 and lived in Manhattan. A 1931 graduate of City College, he began his career on the staff of the Business Men's Council of the Federation of 
 Dr. Ian A. H. Munro, a crusading editor of the British medical journal The Lancet for 12 years, died in a hospital in Kent, England, on Jan. 22. He was 73. The cause was complications of surgery, said David Sharp, deputy editor of The Lancet. Dr. Munro brought the passion of
 Dr. Lewis Henry Gann, a writer, an editor and an archivist steeped in the intersecting histories of Africa and Europe, died on Jan. 17 in his adopted hometown of Palo Alto, Calif. He was 72. He suffered a heart attack, according to a statement from the Hoover Institution in Stanford
 Roger John Tayler, who helped advance modern understanding of stellar evolution and served for 18 years as secretary, treasurer and finally president of the Royal Astronomical Society in Britain, died on Jan. 23 in a London hospital. He was 67 and lived in Lewes, England. The cause 
 Sidney W. Dean Jr., a longtime trustee of the City Club of New York and a strong advocate of free speech who fought for years to make cable television a positive force for the city, died on Jan. 24 at his Greenwich Village apartment. He was 91 and died after suffering a stroke, his 
 Vladimir A. Yamnikov, manager of the Kristall distillery, one of the largest vodka makers in Russia, died in Moscow on Jan. 20. He was 56. As the distillery's longtime head, Mr. Yamnikov navigated the hulking red-brick factory and its work force through changes ranging from Mikhail 
 W. C. Patton, an Alabama civic leader who worked for voter registration among blacks well before it moved to the forefront of the civil rights movement, died on Jan. 16 at University of Alabama Hospital in Birmingham. He was 84. Mr. Patton, whose given name was William, was educated
 Lawrence A. Fleischman, chairman and chief executive officer of Kennedy Galleries in Manhattan, an authority on American art from the 18th through 20th centuries and a major collector of antiquities, died  on Friday at his home in London. He was 71 and also lived in Manhattan. The c
 Louis T. Merriam Jr., a civic leader in Connecticut who also served as chief executive of Revere Sugar, died in his home in Darien on Saturday at the age of 79. Mr. Merriam, known as Junie, died of bladder cancer, his wife, Marjorie, said. An accountant, Mr. Merriam worked in New Yo
 Sanford Meisner, one of the most influential American acting teachers of this century and for decades the director of the celebrated Neighborhood Playhouse School of the Theater in Manhattan, died on Sunday at his home in Sherman Oaks, Calif. He was 91. Mr. Meisner, an unassuming bu
 Theodoros Stamos, a precocious member of Abstract Expressionism's first generation and a prominent figure in a trial that rocked the art world in the 1970's, died on Sunday at the Hatsikosta Hospital in Yiannina, Greece, which he entered 12 days ago. He was 74 and lived in Manhattan and on 
 Chico Science, a songwriter and band leader who was widely hailed as the future of Brazilian music, died on Sunday after a car accident near the northeastern city of Recife, where he lived. He was 30. A local fire department spokesman said he died of injuries he received when his ca
 David Berger, the longtime host and producer of the WQXR-FM radio program ''Music From Germany,'' died on Sunday at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 81. Mr. Berger's career in broadcasting began shortly after World War II when as a representative of the State Depa
 Ed Danowski, a football star at Fordham who went on to lead the Giants to two National Football League titles in the 1930's, died last Saturday in East Patchogue, L.I. He was 85. The cause of death was complications from Alzheimer's disease, said his younger son, John. In th
 Harry H. Wachtel, a Manhattan corporate lawyer who for many years acted as a confidant and legal counsel to Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., died on Monday at his home in Roslyn Heights, L.I. He was 79. The cause was Parkinson's disease, according to a spokeswoman for Gold & Wachtel, the
 Morton Edell, an executive in the cosmetics and vitamin industries, died on Dec. 30 in Sarasota, Fla., at age 88. The cause of death was lung cancer, according to his son David. Born in New York, Mr. Edell worked as a clothing salesman and a stockbroker before founding Morton Edell 
 Dr. Wilcomb E. Washburn, a historian and longtime executive of the Smithsonian Institution who was an authority on North American Indians, died on Saturday at his home in Washington. He was 72 and also had a home in Princess Anne, Md. The cause was prostate cancer, said his wife, Ka
 Alan C. Nelson, who presided over sweeping changes in national immigration policy in the 1980's as Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, then helped write California's tough new immigration law, died on Jan. 29 at his home in Sacramento. He was 63. His family said the caus
 Bohumil Hrabal, who was widely regarded as the grand old man of Czech literature and whose novella ''Closely Watched Trains'' became an Oscar-winning film, died on Monday in a fall from a Prague hospital building. He was 82. A hospital spokesman said he was being treated for severe 
 C. Bowen Northrup, a former correspondent and editor for The Wall Street Journal, died Monday at his home in Stone Ridge, N.Y. He was 61. The cause was cancer, said Diane D. Cooper, his companion. Mr. Northrup, a 1956 graduate of Princeton University, served three years in t
 Dr. Henry H. Barschall, a nuclear physicist who carried out early experiments with neutrons, helped develop the atomic bomb in World War II and then saw his laboratory destroyed by a bomb in Vietnam War protests, died on Tuesday at his home in Madison, Wis. He was 81. The cause was 
 Mitchell Goodman, the impassioned author who organized an antidraft protest that led to the trial of the Boston Five in 1968 and helped galvanize opposition to the Vietnam War, died on Saturday at his home in Temple, Me. He was 73. His wife, Sandra Gregor, said the cause was pancrea
 Julian S. Perlman, a New York lawyer and foundation executive who supported the performing arts in the city, died last Friday while visiting  the Catskill village of Phoenicia, N.Y. He was 70 and lived on the Upper East Side and in Pound Ridge, N.Y. He died of a heart attack, said G
 Milton Berger, a Coney Island press agent who trumpeted the delights of Brooklyn's legendary amusement district so long and with such flamboyant verve that he became a local landmark, died on Monday at his apartment on Ocean Parkway. He was 81 and died knowing that come summer, Coney Island
 Ross Lee Finney, a composer and teacher who was fascinated with the role of memory in both the composition and the understanding of music, died on Tuesday at his home in Carmel, Calif. He was 90. Mr. Finney was a prolific composer whose style evolved considerably in a career lasting
 William E. Reid, a longtime textile executive and occasional adviser to the United States Government on international trade agreements, died on Jan. 29 at his home in Tubac, Ariz. He was 86. The cause was a combination of aphasia and Lou Gehrig's disease, his son-in-law, Rodman B. F
 Ernie Sabayrac, an entrepreneur who popularized the concept of selling golf shoes and apparel in pro shops and whose modest parking-lot display of products became a forerunner of the modern merchandising shows, died on Thursday in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. He was 82. Mr. Sabayrac had
 Frederick J. Almgren Jr., a mathematics professor at Princeton University who studied the geometry of surfaces, died on Wednesday at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. He was 63 and lived in Princeton, N.J. The cause was a complication from a bone marrow transplant for the marr
 Jimmy Weston, a glad-handing former athlete and one-time policeman who loved people, music and dancing so much that he opened a supper club that became Manhattan party central for more than two decades, died on Thursday at Beth Israel Hospital. He was 74 and had operated Jimmy Weston's on E
 Marx Leva, a Washington lawyer who framed much of the legislation that unified the United States' armed services after World War II, died on Sunday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 81. The cause was cancer, his family said. A top legal counsel in the Department of the Nav
 Paul Singer, a psychiatrist who became a leading collector of Asian art, died on Jan. 19 at the Glenside Nursing Home in New Providence, N.J. He was 92. The art objects amassed by Dr. Singer were displayed in museums and galleries around the country. He was the curator of two shows 
 Vero C. Wynne-Edwards, a British ethologist and naturalist whose writings on group selection in evolution became the focus of an often-acrimonious debate among theorists in the 1960's and 70's, died on Jan. 5 in a nursing home in Banchory, Scotland. He was 90. Professor Wynne-Edward
 Dr. Ernest Stacey Griffith, a political scientist and former Federal official who wrote on the workings of government, died on Jan. 17 at the Parkview Nursing Home in Portland, Ore. He was 100. Dr. Griffith moved to Portland in 1990, after living in Washington for 55 years. 
 Gayle Kirkpatrick, a fashion designer known for his youthful, modern approach to American sportswear, died on Jan. 25 at his home in New York City. He was 62. The cause was AIDS, said Howard Lawrence, a friend and the executor of his estate. In his 30-year career on Seventh 
 Joseph D. Noshpitz, a child psychiatrist and psychoanalyst who explored broad influences on behavior in his clinical work, teaching and writings, died on Jan. 28 at his home in Washington. He was 74. The cause was heart failure, said his son, Claude. Whether examining self-d
 Thomas Daniel Young, a professor of English at Vanderbilt University and a leading authority on literature of the American South, died on Jan. 29 at the Bay Springs General Nursing Home in Bay Springs, Miss. He was 77 and lived in Rose Hill, Miss. The cause was complications after a
 William Roscoe Kintner, a writer  on world affairs and professor emeritus of political science at the University of Pennsylvania, died on Feb. 1 in his home in Bryn Athyn, Pa. He was 81. The cause was cancer, his family said. A 1940 graduate of West Point, he served as an in
 Rear Adm. Donald John MacDonald, who commanded a destroyer in some of the heaviest sea battles of World War II, died on Jan. 17 at his home in Washington. He was 88. Admiral MacDonald retired in 1959 as a rear admiral in the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations. In his last assig
 George W. DeFranceaux 2d, a retired mortgage banker and developer who helped establish a corporation that encouraged private investment in housing for people with low and moderate incomes, died on Jan. 27 at the Lafayette General Medical Center in Lafayette, La. He was 83 and had li
 Dr. John Perry Miller, an economics professor for more than 40 years at Yale University who was the dean of the university's graduate school in the 1960's, died yesterday morning at his home in Hamden, Conn. He was 85. He joined the economics department at Yale in 1939 after teachin
 Joseph Kastner, a nature writer who was nominated for a National Book Award for his 1977 book, ''A Species of Eternity,'' a study of early American naturalists, died on Thursday at his home in Grandview-on-Hudson, N.Y. He was 89. Mr. Kastner was also a writer and editor at Life maga
 G. Stockton Strawbridge, who helped transform Strawbridge & Clothier from a small family dry goods store into a department store empire that girdled the Philadelphia area, died at his home in Newtown Square, Pa. on Saturday. He was 83. In a career that spanned more than half a centu
 Paul Cummings, a curator, publisher and authority on American drawings and prints, died on Friday at Beth Israel North Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 64 and lived in Manhattan. He died of complications of a stroke that he suffered on Jan. 24, said Judith Goldman, a friend.     
 Benjamin Gebiner, who devoted a multifaceted career to Jewish communal life and the labor movement, died on Friday at North Shore Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 98 and had been general secretary of the Workmen's Circle. His daughter Laura Landis said that her father, a longtime 
 Dr. George Brampton Koelle, a pharmacological sleuth who spent more than 50 years unraveling secrets of the synapses, died on Feb. 1  at the University of Pennsylvania Medical Center in Philadelphia. He was 78 and lived in Swarthmore, Pa. The cause was a pulmonary embolism, family m
 Jerome Namias, an influential meteorological researcher who pioneered extended weather forecasts in the United States, died on Monday at the Scripps Torrey Pines Convalescent Hospital in San Diego. He was 86. The cause was pneumonia, said the Scripps Institution of Oceanography at t
 Simone Rizzo DeCalvacante, who the authorities say was the former head of a New Jersey Mafia family and whose underworld forte was devising rackets to milk union funds and extort money from legitimate companies, died on Friday in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 84 and had lived in retirement f
 Mario Henrique Simonsen, an economist who served as Brazil's Finance Minister in the tumultuous 1970's, died on Sunday at a hospital in Rio de Janeiro. He was 61. Mr. Simonsen, who also served on the boards of several major corporations, was appointed by President Ernesto Geisel in 
 Thomas B. Stoddard, a lawyer whose persuasiveness and erudition advanced the cause of equal rights for gay men, lesbians and people with AIDS, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 48. The cause was AIDS, said his companion, Walter Rieman. Mr. Stoddard was executiv
 William P. Homans Jr., a Boston civil rights lawyer who championed the downtrodden, the oppressed and the out-and-out villainous with such verve that he became a legend in Massachusetts legal circles, died on Feb. 7 at a nursing home in Phoenix. He was 75 and had lived in Cambridge, Mass.  
 Henry Margenau, a professor emeritus of physics and natural history at Yale University and an expert in spectroscopy, microwave theory, nuclear energy and the philosophy of science, died on Saturday in Hamden, Conn. He was 96 and lived in Hamden. During the 1950's, Dr. Margenau's th
 Robert D. Currie, the production manager for City Center, died on Wednesday at Tisch Hospital, New York University Medical Center, in Manhattan. He was 62 and had homes in Manhattan and North Bushkill, Pa. The cause was a viral infection, said his companion, Susan Bell. Mr. 
 Thomas B. Stoddard, a lawyer whose persuasiveness and erudition advanced the cause of equal rights for gay men, lesbians and people with AIDS, died Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 48. The cause was AIDS, said his companion, Walter Rieman. Mr. Stoddard was executiv
 William McKinley Klein Jr., a botanist who revitalized the study of plants and botanical gardens in Florida, Hawaii and Pennsylvania, died of heart failure on Wednesday at Coral Gables Hospital in Florida. He was 63 and lived in Hawaii. Dr. Klein was in Florida to attend meetings an
 Amrom H. Katz, whose studies prepared the way for space reconnaissance -- the use of space satellites to collect intelligence by photography and other means -- died on Monday in St. John's Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 81 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was complicatio
 John R. Bartels, for 38 years a Federal judge of the Eastern District of New York, died on Thursday at Long Island Jewish Hospital in Brooklyn. Judge Bartels, who lived in Brooklyn Heights, was 99 and the oldest sitting Federal judge. He would have observed his 100th birthday on Nov
 Nathan Lerner, a photographer, designer and teacher, died on Feb. 8 at Northwestern Hospital in Chicago. He was 83, and lived in Chicago. Mr. Lerner's long career was inextricably bound up in the history of visual culture in Chicago. Born in 1913 to immigrants from Ukraine, he began
 Robert Mallary, a junk artist who contributed to the blossoming of American sculpture in the late 1950's and early 60's, and was also a pioneer in the use of plastics and computers in art, died on Monday at Cooley-Dickinson Hospital in Northampton, Mass. He was 69 and lived in Conway, Mass.
 Dr. Arnost Kleinzeller, an emeritus professor of physiology at the University of Pennsylvania who studied the way cells regulate their fluids, died on Feb. 1 at his home in Philadelphia. He was 82. The cause was lung cancer, the university said. Dr. Kleinzeller studied how c
 Conrad M. Arensberg, a pioneering scholar who helped shift the focus of anthropology from the study of exotic primitive peoples to the examination of complex modern societies, died on Monday at a nursing home in Hazlet, N.J. He was 86 and had been professor of anthropology at Columbia Unive
 Dr. Justus J. Schifferes, an editor and writer on health and science, died on Jan. 25 at the Inglemoor Nursing Home in Livingston, N.J. He was 82. The cause was pneumonia, his wife, Cecile, said. He was an editor, with Dr. Forest Ray Moulton, of an anthology of discoveries, 
 Robert Ridgely, a film and television actor, died on Feb. 8 at his home in Toluca Lake, Calif. He was 65. The cause was cancer, his wife, Patricia, said. Mr. Ridgely was a familiar face in Jonathan Demme and Mel Brooks films. He was a game show host in Mr. Demme's ''Melvin a
 The Rev. Robert A. Graham, an American priest who became one of the Roman Catholic Church's foremost authorities on the Vatican's role in the rescue of Jews in World War II, died on Feb. 10 at a Jesuit retirement home in Los Gatos, Calif. He was 84 and had been an outspoken defender of Pope
 Marion J. Epley Jr., a former president and chairman of Texaco Inc., died on Saturday at Harbour's Edge, a nursing home in Delray Beach, Fla., his family said. He was 89 years old. Mr. Epley, a lawyer by training,  became president of Texaco in 1964, and ran the company during a per
 Former Justice Oscar W. Adams Jr. of the Alabama Supreme Court, the first black ever elected to statewide office in Alabama, died on Saturday at the Baptist Medical Center-Montclair in Birmingham, his hometown. He was 72. The cause was an infection related to cancer, hospital offici
 T. Christopher Pettit, an investment banker who resigned last year as president of Lehman Brothers after disagreements over the direction of the company, died on Saturday near Windham, Me. He was 51. Mr. Pettit, of Brooklyn, died of head injuries suffered in a snowmobile accident th
 Darcy Ribeiro, an anthropologist who unlocked the cultural riches of Brazil's Indians for the rest of his country, died at a hospital in Brasilia on Monday. He was 74. The cause was cancer, according to a report from the Sarah Kubitschek Hospital. Though Mr. Ribeiro first ca
 Delaney Kiphuth, a former director of athletics at Yale and one of the first administrators of the Ivy League, died on Feb. 12 at his home in Hamden, Conn. He was 78. The cause was complications after a stroke, his family said. Mr. Kiphuth was the only son of Robert J. H. Ki
 Deng Xiaoping, one of the founding revolutionaries of Communist China and the architect of economic modernizations that transformed the world's most populous nation, died Wednesday night in Beijing. He was 92. The official New China News Agency reported that Mr. Deng, who for the la
 Like Mao Zedong and Zhou Enlai before him, Deng Xiaoping was among the small group of revolutionary elders who fought as guerrillas for the Communist cause and then dominated the leadership of the People's Republic they proclaimed on Oct. 1, 1949. Few if any figures in this century 
 Leo Rosten, the writer, scholar and language maven who introduced millions of Americans to the deep lexical pleasures of chutzpah and shlemiel and kibitz and nosh, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 88. Mr. Rosten, who wrote dozens of works of fiction and nonfiction in 
 Warren Weaver Jr., who covered politics and government in Albany, in Washington and across the country for The New York Times for virtually all his 42 years as a reporter, died this morning at Georgetown University Medical Center here. He was 74 and lived in Washington. The cause wa
 Alphonse Marie Nkubito, a former Justice Minister of Rwanda and an outspoken voice for human rights and the rule of law, died on Feb. 13 at his home in the capital city of Kigali. He was 42. According reports from Rwanda radio, Mr. Nkubito, the founding president of the Rwandan Asso
 Antonio de Almeida, a conductor and musicologist who was an authority on the music of Offenbach and whose recordings helped restore the works of Massenet, Duparc and Chausson to the active repertory, died on Tuesday at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center. He was 69 and had homes in 
 David A. McCann, a former publisher of Town & Country and Connoisseur magazines who was an expert at appealing to advertisers who wanted to appeal to the rich, died last  Friday at the Jupiter Medical Center in Jupiter, Fla. He was 67. Mr. McCann, who lived in Lloyd Harbor, L.I., an
 Dr. Herbert B. Wilcox Jr., who practiced and taught medicine for four decades and whose patients included Winston Churchill and Sir Anthony Eden, died on Feb. 5 at the Evergreen Woods retirement home in North Branford, Conn. He was 88. Dr. Wilcox, an internist, was a staff doctor an
 Charles Schinitsky, a champion of the legal rights of children whose work helped to revolutionize the juvenile court system in New York in a way that became a model for court systems nationwide, has died and will be honored in a program at the Association of the Bar of the City of New York 
 Darold Dobs, the executive director of the American Bowling Congress, died in Milwaukee on Feb. 10. He was 54. The cause was cancer, the congress said. Mr. Dobs took over leadership of the A.B.C., the national sanctioning body for bowling with more than 2,500 local associati
 Lewis Jacobs, a writer, film maker and teacher, died on Feb. 11 at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 92 and lived in Great Neck, L.I. Mr. Jacobs was the author of ''The Rise of the American Film,'' first published in 1939 and subsequently reprinted six times.
 Manfred Klafter, a Dutch Holocaust survivor who founded an Israeli organization offering psychological and social support to Israel's 300,000 Holocaust survivors and their families, died on Feb. 6 in Bern. He was 77 and lived in Jerusalem. He died of injuries suffered 10 days earlie
 Dr. Robert Herman, a physicist who began his career by predicting echoes of the origin of the cosmos and later developed a new field called traffic sciences in which statistics can be used to predict traffic jams, died on Feb. 13 at his home in Austin, Tex. He was 82. The cause was 
 Albert Shanker, who rose from being a substitute mathematics teacher to become a tough, canny labor leader who in the 1960's transformed New York City's United Federation of Teachers into one of the nation's most powerful unions, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in M
 Archer Winsten, who spent 50 years turning out crisp, thoughtful movie reviews for The New York Post, but only, he insisted, because he found the job a pleasant enough alternative to actual work, died on Friday at a daughter's home in Moreau, N.Y. He was 92 and had retired in 1986. 
 James T. Tierney, formerly chief executive of the Fund for Peace, a nonprofit organization that focuses on such issues as human rights, the security of nations and conflict resolution, died on Jan. 26 at his home in Phoenix. He was 74. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his daugh
 Leonard (Buddy) Edelen Jr., the first American marathoner in nearly four decades to set a world record, died of cancer in Tulsa, Okla., on Wednesday. He was 59. Edelen cut 48 seconds off the world record when he won Britain's Polytechnic Marathon, covering the 26 miles 385 yards in 
 Robert W. Sarnoff, who succeeded his father as chairman of the RCA Corporation and steered it into a hodgepodge of new businesses before being removed more than 20 years ago in a ''palace revolt,'' died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 78 and lived in Manhattan. His wife, th
 Albert Shanker, who rose from being a substitute mathematics teacher to become a tough, canny labor leader who in the 1960's transformed New York City's United Federation of Teachers into one of the nation's most powerful unions, died on Saturday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in
 Geoffrey Swaebe, a department store executive who ran the May Company's southern California operations for 10 years and later served five years as Ambassador to Belgium under Ronald Reagan, died on Tuesday at a hospital near his home in Los Angeles. He was 86. His son, Geoffrey Jr.,
 Robert W. Sarnoff, who succeeded his father as chairman of the RCA Corporation and steered it into a hodgepodge of new businesses before being removed more than 20 years ago in a ''palace revolt,'' died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 78 and lived in Manhattan. His wife, 
 Walter Sorell, an erudite and prolific writer about dance and esthetics, died on Friday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 91 and had residences in Manhattan and Zurich. Mr. Sorell, who was the New York dance critic for The Providence Journal from 1950 to
 Not every 36-year-old freshly arrived in Manhattan is immediately invited to dinner (and provided with a tuxedo) by Ralph Lauren, or to a lunch given by the Vogue editor Anna Wintour for Katharine Graham, or to an opening of the Byzantium exhibition at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, or to 
 Andrei Sinyavsky, a Russian dissident and writer whose imprisonment in the 1960's marked the end of the more liberal period after Stalin's death, died today at his home in the Paris suburb of Fontenay-aux-Roses. He was 71 and emigrated to France in 1973. The cause was cancer, his so
 Martin Slate, the executive director of the Government corporation that insures the pensions of 41 million Americans and a civil servant repeatedly honored for innovative solutions to regulatory problems, died on Sunday night, the White House announced yesterday. He was 51. His wife
 Tony Williams, a drummer whose innovations made him one of the most influential jazz musicians of the last half-century, died on Sunday at the Seton Medical Center in Daly City, Calif. He was 51. The cause was a heart attack, said his publicist, Kirk Tanksley. Mr. Williams w
 Cal Abrams, a Brooklyn Dodger outfielder whose otherwise ordinary career was punctuated by an extraordinary moment underlining the Brooklyn fans' lament, ''Wait Till Next Year,'' died on Tuesday in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 72. Abrams, who lived in Tamarac, Fla., died at North Ri
 Ion Cioaba, who proclaimed himself King of All Gypsies Everywhere but wielded most of his meager influence as a political gadfly in his native Romania, died on Sunday at a hospital in Bucharest. He was 62 and reportedly died of a heart attack. A native of Sibiu, in Transylvania, Mr.
 Robert Kenneth Straus, a member of one of New York's leading merchant families who turned instead to government service, publishing and, most recently, founded a center for the support of analytical thought in decision-making, died on Monday at St. Francis Hospital in Santa Barbara, Calif. 
 Howard W. McCall Jr., a former president of Chemical Bank and its parent, the Chemical Banking Corporation, died at his home in Darien, Conn., on Monday after a long illness, said Kenneth Herz, a spokesman for his former employer. He was 89. Mr. McCall joined Chemical Bank as a note
 Nuccio Bertone, the automobile designer whose career producing some of the world's most exotic low-volume sports cars spanned more than 60 years and who brought forth models for such high-powered manufacturers as Ferrari and Lamborghini, and also for Volvo and General Motors, died on Wednes
