 Clifford Geertz, the eminent cultural anthropologist whose work focused on interpreting the symbols he believed give meaning and order to people's lives, died on Monday in Philadelphia. He was 80 and lived in Princeton, N.J. The cause was complications after heart surgery, according
 P. W. Botha, the South African leader who struggled vainly to preserve apartheid rule in a tide of domestic racial violence and global condemnation, died yesterday at his home in South Africa. He was 90. His death was reported by The South African Press Association in Cape Town, quo
 Silas Simmons, the former Negro leagues baseball player who was believed to be the longest-living professional ballplayer in history, died Sunday in St. Petersburg, Fla. He was 111. His death was announced by a spokeswoman for the retirement home where he died. A Philadelphi
 Thomas R. Jones, a New York State assemblyman and judge who challenged Senator Robert F. Kennedy to address urban malaise and became the founding chairman of the Bedford-Stuyvesant Restoration Corporation, a leading organization in the 1960s' effort to revitalize urban ghettos, died on Frid
 Robert Anderson, who as president and chairman of the Rockwell International Corporation oversaw the construction of NASA space shuttles and the controversial B-1 long-range bomber, died Saturday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 85. The cause was complications of cancer, said Pame
 William Styron, the novelist from the American South whose explorations of difficult historical and moral questions earned him a place among the leading literary figures of the post-World War II generation, died yesterday on Martha's Vineyard, Mass., where he had a home. He was 81. 
 Rogério Duprat, the producer and arranger behind the important albums of the late-1960s Tropicália movement in Brazilian music, died on Oct. 25 in São Paolo. He was 74. The death was announced by his family to the newspaper Folha de São Paolo. He had been suffering from Alzheime
 Samuel B. Casey Jr., who as president, chief executive and chairman of Pullman Inc. in the 1970s oversaw the company's transformation from a manufacturer of luxury railroad cars to a builder of vast construction projects, died Oct. 12 in Naples, Fla., his hometown. He was 78. The ca
 Silvio Varviso, a Swiss conductor who had a prominent international career without seeking stardom, died Wednesday in Antwerp, Belgium. He was 82 and lived in Basel, Switzerland. He died after a short illness, according to the Vlaamse Opera in Antwerp, where he was principal guest c
 Jens Christian Hauge, who led Norway's underground military resistance during World War II, then helped shape his nation's postwar future by using high political and business positions to carve out pro-Western but independent policies, died Monday in Oslo. He was 91. The Norwegian g
 Leonard P. Pepkowitz, a chemist involved in early nuclear research who advised the Atomic Energy Commission on the materials necessary for safely generating commercial power, died on Oct. 19 in Amherst, N.Y. He was 91. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said.        
 Bulent Ecevit, a resilient leader who served four terms as Turkey's prime minister in a turbulent era, died yesterday in a hospital in Ankara, the Turkish capital. He was 81. Mr. Ecevit, who suffered a stroke in May from which he never completely recovered, died of circulatory and r
 Fereydoun Hoveyda, a former Iranian ambassador to the United Nations during the reign of Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi and an expert in Middle Eastern affairs, died Friday at his home in Clifton, Va. He was 82. The cause was cancer, said his daughter Roxana Hoveyda. Mr. Hoveyda
 Stanley Rothenberg, a lawyer who was an expert in copyright and entertainment law and a past president of the Copyright Society of the U.S.A., died on Friday in Manhattan. He was 76. The cause was complications after surgery for a popliteal aneurism, a weakened blood vessel in the l
 Ham Richardson, who surmounted juvenile diabetes to become a leading American tennis player in the 1950s and early '60s, died Sunday in Manhattan. He was 73. The cause was complications of diabetes, his family said. When he was 15 years old and one of the best junior players
 Jean-Jacques Servan-Schreiber, a self-described ''agitator in ideas'' who helped mold the intellectual and political life of France and whose 1967 book warning of American economic domination of Europe provoked a firestorm on both sides of the Atlantic, died yesterday in Fécamp, in northwe
 Johnny Sain, who teamed with Warren Spahn to pitch the Boston Braves to the 1948 National League championship in a pennant race that inspired an enduring baseball rhyme, died Tuesday in Downers Grove, Ill. He was 89. The cause was complications from a stroke, said his wife, Maryann.
 Sid Davis, a prolific educational filmmaker of the 1950s and '60s whose cautionary movies -- from ''The Dangerous Stranger'' to ''The Bottle and the Throttle'' -- sought to terrify an entire generation of young people into straitlaced middle-class obedience, died on Oct. 16 at his home in P
 Ed Bradley, a fixture in American living rooms on Sunday nights for a quarter century as a correspondent on ''60 Minutes'' and one of the first black journalists prominently featured on network television, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 65. Mr. Bradley died at Mount Sinai Medic
 Markus Wolf, the famously elusive spymaster of Communist East Germany whose feats of espionage were the stuff of cold war legend, died Thursday. He was 83. Known as ''the man without a face,'' because for years Western intelligence agencies did not even possess a photograph of him, 
 Marshal Igor D. Sergeyev, a career soldier who rose to command Russia's nuclear missiles and then became defense minister, presiding over a deteriorated military until being fired in 2001 in the aftermath of the disastrous sinking of a submarine, died yesterday in Moscow. He was 68.        
 Jack Palance, a coal miner's son who spent most of a long Hollywood career playing memorable heavies in movies like ''Shane'' and ''Sudden Fear,'' only to win an Academy Award in his 70s for a self-parodying comic performance in ''City Slickers,'' died yesterday at his home in Montecito, Ca
 Benny Andrews, a figural expressionistic painter and teacher whose paintings, prints, drawings and collages drew on his African-American roots in Georgia, died on Friday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 75. The cause was cancer, said Nene Humphrey, his wife. Mr. Andrews was a
 Isadore Barmash, a retired business news reporter for The New York Times who specialized in retailing and wrote a dozen books on trends, strategies and machinations in the ferociously competitive mercantile industry, died on Thursday at the Margaret Tietz hospice in Jamaica, Queens. He was 
 George B. Thomas Jr., a mathematician whose widely read calculus textbook has introduced legions of students to the challenges of functions, derivatives and integrals since the early 1950s, died on Oct. 31 in State College, Pa. He was 92. Dr. Thomas's death was confirmed by his fami
 Isadore Barmash, a retired business news reporter for The New York Times who specialized in retailing and wrote a dozen books on trends, strategies and machinations in the ferociously competitive mercantile industry, died on Thursday at the Margaret Tietz hospice in Jamaica, Queens. He was 
 Nate Gooden, who recently retired as a vice president of the United Automobile Workers union and who served on the board of the German automaker DaimlerChrysler AG, died on Tuesday, the union said. He was 68. The union did not announce a place or cause of death for Mr. Gooden, who l
 Philip Rauch, the former president of a clamp manufacturing company who helped start a family foundation that assists children in poor families on Long Island, died on Wednesday in East Setauket, N.Y. He was 95 and had homes in Old Westbury, N.Y., and Palm Beach, Fla. The death was 
 Robert Fennell, a Broadway press agent who represented more than 100 productions across the United States, including the hit musical ''Wicked,'' died on Sunday at his family's home in Yonkers. He was 48. The cause was liver cancer, his family said. Mr. Fennell's personality 
 Robert J. Strudler, the chairman of the Lennar Corporation, one of the nation's largest home building companies, died Tuesday in Houston. He was 64. The cause was complications of an infection, his wife, Ruth Honigman Strudler, said. Mr. Strudler was named chief operating of
 Jack Williamson, a distinguished writer of science fiction who was born in an adobe hut in the Arizona Territory and grew up to write of robots, genetic engineering and the colonization of distant planets, died on Friday at his home in Portales, N.M. He was 98. The death was announc
 Robert B. McCurry, who invented the concept of cash rebates while an executive at Chrysler and later became one of the most prominent Americans at a Japanese car company, died Monday at his home in Rehoboth Beach, Del. He was 83. The cause was complications of prostate cancer, said 
 S. Lane Faison Jr., an art historian who cut his teeth cataloging Hitler's collection of plundered paintings, then, as a Williams College professor, inspired students who went on to head many of America's leading art institutions, died on Saturday at his home in Williamstown, Mass. He was 9
 Anthony A. Lapham, who was the Central Intelligence Agency's top lawyer in the 1970s when the agency was reeling from Congressional investigations into questionable and illegal activities, died on Nov. 11 near Burnsville, N.C. He was 70. Mr. Lapham died of a heart attack while fishi
 Stanley Meltzoff, who dived to great depths to photograph sea life and then, in his studio, transformed those images into vibrant paintings for magazines like Sports Illustrated and Scientific American, died Thursday in Red Bank, N.J. He was 89 and lived in Fair Haven, N.J. The deat
 G. Robert Crowningshield, a gemologist who helped revolutionize methods for judging the quality of precious stones and for spotting fakes, died on Nov. 8 in Hightstown, N.J. He was 87. He lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. His death was confirmed by a spokesman from 
 Gen. Jacob E. Smart, a four-star general who conceived the strategy for the daring World War II bombing raid on the oil refineries at Ploesti, Romania, and went on to help shape the postwar Air Force, died Sunday in Ridgeland, S.C., in the house in which he was born. He was 97. The 
 David K. Wyatt, a student of Southeast Asian history who marshaled his ability to do research in seven languages to become one of the pre-eminent historians of Thailand, died on Tuesday in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 69. The cause was emphysema and congestive heart failure, said Blaine Frie
 Milton Friedman, the grandmaster of free-market economic theory in the postwar era and a prime force in the movement of nations toward less government and greater reliance on individual responsibility, died yesterday. He was 94 and lived in San Francisco. His death was confirmed by 
 Nicholas Proffitt, a war correspondent for Newsweek in Vietnam and Beirut who also wrote a novel and a screenplay based on his service in the honor guard at Arlington National Cemetery, died on Nov. 10 at his home in Naples, Fla. He was 63. The cause was kidney cancer, his wife Mart
 Bo Schembechler, who took the University of Michigan to 13 Big Ten championships and a host of bowl appearances in becoming one of college football's most renowned coaches, died yesterday after collapsing while preparing to tape a television show. He was 77. His death was announced 
 Ferenc Puskas, a prolific goal scorer for the national soccer team of Hungary and the Real Madrid club in Spain and, by wide agreement, the game's first international superstar, died yesterday in Budapest. He was 79. His death was announced by a family spokesman, Gyorgy Szollosy, Th
 Peter Wensberg, a driving force in raising the Polaroid company's profile in the 1970s by broadening its distribution of the ''instant camera'' into department and discount stores while promoting it in memorable commercials, died Nov. 8 in Peterborough, N.H. He was 77 and lived in Greenfiel
 Frank Durkan, who as a lawyer, writer and political spokesman carved out a reputation as a fierce and clever defender of Irish nationalists, died on Thursday in Greenwich, Conn. He was 76. The cause was complications of a lung infection, his cousin Brian O'Dwyer said. Mr. Du
 Albert B. Friedman, a noted scholar of medieval literature who reveled in the tabloid journalism of the preliterate Middle Ages -- the popular ballads rife with sex, betrayal, incest and all manner of murder -- died on Nov. 11 in Los Angeles. He was 86 and had lived in Los Angeles for many 
 Yuri Levada, a sociologist and pollster whose surveys provided some of the most reliable information about public opinion in the Soviet Union and then Russia, died at his office in Moscow on Thursday. He was 76. A colleague at the Levada Analytical Center, Leonid Sedov, told The Ass
 G. Gordon Strong, a former president and chairman of two newspaper chains and then publisher of The Oakland Tribune, died on Nov. 13 in Pasadena, Calif. He was 92 and lived in La Cañada, Calif. The cause was pneumonia, his son, George G. Strong Jr., said. Mr. Strong was pre
 Robert Altman, one of the most adventurous and influential American directors of the late 20th century, a filmmaker whose iconoclastic career spanned more than five decades but whose stamp was felt most forcefully in one, the 1970s, died Monday in Los Angeles. He was 81. His death, 
 Curtis Cate, an American biographer who chronicled the lives of several well-known European writers, among them Nietzsche, George Sand and André Malraux, died in Paris on Thursday. He was 82 and had lived in Paris for most of his life. The cause was melanoma, his brother, Benjamin,
 Paul Rigby, an award-winning cartoonist for The New York Post and The Daily News who first made his name on the editorial pages of Australian dailies, died on Nov. 15 at his home in Busselton, Australia. He was 82. The cause was a heart attack, New York Post Wire Services reported. 
 Robert Altman, one of the most adventurous and influential American directors of the late 20th century, a filmmaker whose iconoclastic career spanned more than five decades but whose stamp was felt most forcefully in one, the 1970s, died Monday in Los Angeles. He was 81. His death, 
 Jimmy Buffett, accompanied by Allen Toussaint on piano, had just finished singing ''Do You Know What It Means to Miss New Orleans?'' at the memorial service for his friend Ed Bradley yesterday when a tall, white-haired figure ascended the pulpit for a eulogy unbilled in the program. It was 
 Jack Werber, a Holocaust survivor who helped save more than 700 children at the Buchenwald slave labor camp in the last months of World War II, then prospered after arriving in the United States by manufacturing coonskin caps during the Davy Crockett craze of the mid-1950's, died on Saturda
 Steam Train Maury, who started life as Maurice W. Graham until a train whistle's timeless lament compelled him to hop a freight to freedom and, much later, fame, as the first and only Grand Patriarch of the Hobos, died on Nov. 18 in Napoleon, Ohio, near Toledo. Mr. Graham was 89 and
 Gerald M. Boyd, who began work as a teenage grocery bagger in St. Louis and rose to become managing editor of The New York Times, then was forced to resign in a newsroom revolt after a young reporter was exposed as a fabricator, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 56 and lived in Manhattan.
 H. Donald Wilson, who prepared the original business plan for what became Mead Data Central and its pioneering Lexis-Nexis database, died on Nov. 12 at his home in Mitchellville, Md. He was 82. The cause was a heart attack, said his daughter Edith R. Wilson. Mr. Wilson, a la
 Jesús Blancornelas, a fearless journalist who won several awards for his crusade against drug cartels and survived an assassination attempt in 1997, died Thursday in Tijuana, where he founded Zeta magazine. He was 70. News reports in Mexico announced his death, but the cause has no
 Philippe Noiret, a much-loved French character actor who gained international renown through the movies ''Il Postino'' and ''Cinema Paradiso,'' died on Thursday at his home on the Left Bank in Paris. He was 76. The cause was cancer, said his agency, Artmedia. Although Mr. No
 Robert Lockwood Jr., the Mississippi Delta bluesman who was taught by Robert Johnson and became a mentor to generations of blues musicians, died on Tuesday in Cleveland, where he lived. He was 91. The cause was respiratory failure, said his wife, Mary Smith Lockwood. Mr. Lockwood ha
 Willie Pep, one of boxing's pre-eminent figures and a longtime featherweight champion remembered most for his four title bouts against Sandy Saddler, died Thursday. He was 84. He had been living in an Alzheimer's disease unit at the Haven Health Center in Rocky Hill, Conn., for the 
 Robert H. Kupperman, who more than 30 years ago was among the first officials to tell the White House of the dangers of a terrorist attack on the United States, died Friday at his home in Washington. He was 71. The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, first diagnosed in 1
 Rhodes W. Fairbridge, an early expert on climate change who edited an influential series of encyclopedias covering the earth sciences, died on Nov. 8 in Amagansett, N.Y. He was 92. The cause was a brain tumor, his family said. Beginning in 1966, Dr. Fairbridge, a geologist a
 Bernard Rimland, who overturned conventional theories about the origin of autism in the 1960s and later forced scientists and policymakers to consider alternative causes and treatments, died last Tuesday in El Cajon, Calif., near his home in San Diego. He was 78. The cause was compl
 Dave Cockrum, an illustrator who in the mid-1970s helped invent a dynamic new look and intriguing new characters for the moribund ''X-Men'' comics, paving the way for what became America's most popular comic books and a billion-dollar movie empire, died on Nov. 26 at his home in Belpon, S.C
 David Kritchevsky, a biochemist and expert in human nutrition who made groundbreaking studies of cholesterol and dietary fats and who pushed for balanced approaches to assessing health risks from foods, died on Nov. 20 in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 86. His death was confirmed by a spokes
 Smith Hempstone, a journalist who became United States ambassador to Kenya and pushed so forcefully for democracy in that country that its one-party government denounced him as a racist and demanded his recall, died on Nov. 19 in Bethesda, Md. He was 77. The cause was complications 
