 Eliot Reif, the president since 1980 of the retirees association of District Council 37 of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, died yesterday at the home of a daughter, Marilyn Cooper, in Rye, N.Y. He was 84 years old. He died of amyotrophic lateral scl
 Andrew M. McBurney, a retired executive vice president of the Oxford Paper Company and a former official of the Office of Price Stabilization in Washington, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 77 years old and also lived in Lake Placid, N.Y. He died of heart failure br
 Albert W. Wein, a sculptor known for his heroic Art Deco style, died on Saturday at the Westchester County Medical Center in Valhalla, N.Y. He was 75 years old and lived in Ossining, N.Y. He died of pancreatic cancer, said Joseph Veach Noble, dean emeritus of the Museum of the City 
 David Goodman, a government administrator and former city manager of Peekskill, N.Y., died on Friday at the Country House, a retirement home in Yorktown Heights, N.Y. He was 79 years old. He died of heart failure, a family spoksman said. Mr. Goodman became the first city man
 Hyman Ashman, a physician for 50 years who retired in 1985, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 81 years old. He died of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or Lou Gehrig's disease, his family said. He was a graduate of Columbia College and of Columbia's College of Ph
 Hyman Korn, a retired justice of New York State Supreme Court, died on Sunday at the Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 88 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of complications of a stroke, a family spokesman said. Justice Korn, who served in the courts for
 John Carter, the clarinetist and composer, died at Daniel Freeman Hospital in Los Angeles on Sunday morning. He was 61 years old and lived in Los Angeles. He died of complications from lung cancer, his son John Jr. said yesterday. Mr. Carter, an extraordinarily virtuosic imp
 Lawrence K. Miller, former editor and publisher of The Berkshire Eagle, died of pneumonia on Sunday. He was 83 years old. Under Mr. Miller, the paper, published in Pittsfield, won a Pulitzer Prize in 1973 for editorial writing. He became publisher of The Eagle in 1972 after 
 Dr. Malcom E. Phelps, a founder of the American Academy of Family Physicians, died Friday. He was 85 years old. Dr. Phelps was president of the organization, then the American Academy of General Practice, in 1957. The organization now has 71,000 members. In 1966 President Ly
 Former Vice President Paulo Muwanga died today, the state radio reported. He was 70 years old. The radio said Mr. Muwanga had died at Nsambya Hospital near Kampala, where he had been under treatment since Friday. The broadcast did not give the cause of death, but he was known to suf
 Hundreds of mourners led by Vice President Dan Quayle and members of the Cabinet paid tribute to Lee Atwater today, praising the skill that took him to the height of national political power until cancer cut short his life last week at the age of 40. Speaking to the 800 people who f
 Alfred Charles Buck, developer of the folding Buck Hunting Knife, died of cancer Sunday at his home. He was 80 years old. Mr. Buck learned to make hunting knives from his father, Hoyt Heath Buck, and together they began a business behind their San Diego home in 1948. Buck Kn
 Carlos Montalban, an actor and dancer whose film career spanned four decades, died Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 87 years old. He died of heart failure, said Joel Brokaw, a spokesman for the family. Mr. Montalban, the brother of the actor Ricardo Montalban, was p
 Dave Morrah, known for his humorous articles and cartoons in The Saturday Evening Post from 1946 to 1962, died on Friday. He was 77 years old. Best known for his mock German style, he wrote for Collier's, Look and American Magazine as well as The Saturday Evening Post. Mr. Morrah's 
 H. Hunter Williams, a retired New York Telephone executive, died on Friday at United Hospital in Port Chester, N.Y. He was 82 years old and lived in Rye, N.Y. He died of a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Williams was born in Plainfield, N.J., and was a graduate of the Hot
 James B. Moore Jr., a yachtsman who competed on Long Island Sound for more than 60 years, died Saturday at St. Francis Hospital in Roslyn. He was 79 years old. Mr. Moore died of complications from cancer and diabetes, his son, Stephen Moore, said yesterday. A founding member
 John Zorek, a travel agent who specialized in travel plans for symphony orchestras and others in the music world, died on Friday at the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 79 years old and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Zorek died of a heart attack, his son, Jeff, said.       
 Dr. Kenneth B. McCredie, a pioneer in the treatment of leukemia, died Saturday at his home. He was 55 years old. The cause of death was not disclosed. Dr. McCredie was chief of the leukemia department at the University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center, which he joined i
 Lawrence Jay Taylor, a music librarian, producer and singer, died on March 18 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 44 years old. He died of lymphomic cancer, his companion, Billy Matthews, said. Mr. Taylor was the printing coordinator of the Chelsea Music Service,
 Matthew P. Deane, a retired investment banker and stockbroker, died on Friday at his home in Todt Hill, S.I. He was 60 years old. He died of cancer, his wife said. He was a former vice chairman of L. F. Rothschild, an investment banking and stock brokerage firm in Manhattan.
 Robert J. Klausner, a founding partner of Klausner Associates, real-estate investors and developers, died on Saturday at White Plains Hospital. He was 72 years old and lived in Scarsdale, N.Y. He died of complications from Parkinson's disease, a family spokesman said. Mr. Kl
 Samuel Joseph Powers, a White House lawyer who found the 18-minute gap on President Richard M. Nixon's Watergate tapes, died Friday. He was 73 years old. Mr. Powers, a Florida trial lawyer, served on Mr. Nixon's legal staff during the Watergate hearings. He and Leonard Garment, then
 Sol C. Chaikin, president of the International Ladies Garment Workers Union from 1975 until 1986 and more recently acting head of the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center on Manhattan's West Side, died on Monday at Long Island Jewish Medical Center in New Hyde Park, Queens. He was 73 years old
 Stanley Diamond, a poet and anthropologist who founded the anthropology department at the New School for Social Research in Manhattan, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 69 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of liver cancer, his wife said. Dr. Diamon
 William Francis Shea, who was budget director for New York City in the early 1960's, died on Monday at Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 88 years old and lived in Delray Beach, Fla. He died of an intestinal infection, his daughter, Therese McDonald, said. Mr. Shea st
 Bernard Fensterwald Jr., a former Government lawyer who later defended James Earl Ray and James W. McCord Jr., a Watergate burglar, died Tuesday at his home in Alexandria, Va. He was 69 years old. He died of a heart attack, his wife, Patricia, said. Mr. Fensterwald was with 
 Graham Greene, the British author whose novels of suspense and moral ambiguity plumbed the sordid politics of the modern world and the inner torments of mankind, died yesterday at La Providence Hospital in Vevey, near Lake Geneva in Switzerland. He was 86 years old. The official cau
 Harold J. Treanor, a lawyer who served as counsel to the Real Estate Board of New York for almost 50 years, died on Tuesday at New Rochelle Hospital. He was 91 years old and lived in Pelham, N.Y. He died of cardiac arrest, his family said. Mr. Treanor was born in Yonkers and
 Robert Veyron-Lacroix, a pianist and harpsichordist known for his collaboration with the flutist Jean-Pierre Rampal, died on Tuesday in Paris. He was 68 years old. He died after a long illness, said the Bureau de Concerts Marcel de Valmalete, his management company in Paris.        
 William Esbitt, a lawyer, retired brigadier general in the Army Reserve and former assistant United States attorney, died on Monday at the J.F.K. Medical Center in Atlantis, Fla. He was 80 years old and lived in Atlantis. He died of heart failure, his daughter Jessica said. 
 David Kay, a retired pharmaceutical industry executive, died on Wednesday at his home in Pompano, Fla. He was 86 years old. He died of heart failure, a family spokeswoman said. Mr. Kay came to the United States in 1927 from his native Russia. He joined the Purepac Corporatio
 Frank Gustine, an All-Star infielder for the Pittsburgh Pirates in 1946, 1947 and 1948, died of a heart attack on Monday in Davenport, Iowa. He was 71 years old. Mr. Gustine was in Iowa for the first voyage of the President, a casino riverboat owned by John E. Connelly, his partner 
 Fred Capossela, the announcer at New York thoroughbred race tracks for 37 years before his retirement in 1971, died Wednesday night at his home. He was 88 years old. Mr. Capossela suffered a stroke last Saturday and another stroke on Wednesday, according to a statement issued by the
 George Meltzer, an architect and professor of architecture at New York Institute of Technology, died on Tuesday at his home in East Norwich, L.I. He was 69 years old. He died of bladder cancer, a daughter, Dr. Donna Meltzer, said. Mr. Meltzer, who taught for more than 20 yea
 In 20 years on Capitol Hill, 5 of them in the House and 15 in the Senate representing Pennsylvania, John Heinz built a solid record as a persistent defender of the nation's growing elderly population and of the declining steel industry. A moderate-to-liberal Republican, one of the r
 John Mullen, vice president and assistant general manager of the Atlanta Braves, was found dead in his hotel room on Wednesday. He was 66 years old. The cause of death was undetermined after a preliminary autopsy report, said a spokesman for the Palm Beach Gardens police. Mr
 John Tesoriero, who retired as vice president of Hunter College for finance and facilities in 1985, died on Friday at his home in Eltingville, S.I. He was 53 years old. He died of cancer, his family said. Mr. Tesoriero, who was born in Brooklyn, managed New York University's
 Lamar Alford, an actor and singer who made his Broadway debut as Lamar in the 1971 musical "Godspell," died on Friday at Crawford Long Hospital here. He was 46 years old. His family would not disclose the cause of death. Mr. Alford, who also appeared on Broadway in 1973 in "
 Leo Grebler, professor emeritus of urban land economics at the University of California at Los Angeles, died Tuesday at U.C.L.A. Medical Center. He was 90 years old and lived in West Los Angeles. Professor Grebler died of a heart attack, a spokesman for the family said. He a
 Max Frisch, the Swiss novelist, dramatist and essayist, died yesterday at his home outside Zurich. He was 79 years old. He died of cancer, his son, Hans Peter Frisch, told the Associated Press. A major theme of Mr. Frisch's fiction was the individual's struggle to retain his
 Miles F. McDonald, whose investigation into police corruption as Brooklyn District Attorney led to Mayor William O'Dwyer's resignation, died on Wednesday at Jupiter Hospital in Tequesta, Fla. He was 85 years old and lived in Tequesta. He died after a stroke, his son, Miles Jr., said
 Rabbi Samuel Schafler, the president of Hebrew College in Brookline, Mass., died Wednesday at his home in Brookline. He was 62 years old. He died of cancer, a college spokeswoman said. Rabbi Schafler, who was ordained in 1952, was educated at the Jewish Theological Seminary 
 Capt. Manley Lanier Carter Jr. of the Navy, the astronaut who was killed yesterday when a commuter airliner crashed in Georgia, was a physician who spent 120 hours in orbit aboard the space shuttle Discovery on a secret military venture. Captain Carter, 43 years old, played professi
 In his 24 years in the United States Senate, John G. Tower, the first Republican Senator from Texas since Reconstruction, became one of the most influential and knowledgeable lawmakers on military and national security issues. But when he left Washington in 1989, he departed in virtual humi
 Oscar Barrera, one of five brothers from Cuba who became well-known trainers of thoroughbred horses in the United States, died Thursday night at Jamaica Hospital in Queens. He was 63 years old. Mr. Barrera died several hours after suffering a heart attack at Aqueduct Race Track, sai
 P. J. Boatwright Jr., long known as the world's foremost authority on the Rules of Golf, died of bone cancer yesterday at Morristown Memorial Hospital in Morristown, N.J. He was 63 years old and lived in Gladstone, N.J. Mr. Boatwright had served as the United States Golf Association
 Robert Schoelkopf, a dealer in 20th-century American art, died on Thursday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 63 years old and had homes in Manhattan and Chappaqua, N.Y. Mr. Schoelkopf died of leukemia, his wife, the former Jane Nease, said. In 1962 he founded
 Dr. Benjamin G. Covino, chairman of the department of anesthesia at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston and a professor at Harvard Medical School, died Thursday at his home in Shrewsbury, Mass. He was 60 years old. He died of a heart attack, a hospital spokesman said. Dr.
 Guy Boudin, a photographer of the erotic-surrealistic school of fashion popular with fashion magazines, died March 29 in Paris. He was 57 years old and lived in Paris. He died of cancer, a spokesman for the family said. Mr. Boudin's first fashion photographs were taken for F
 Harry T. Montgomery, a retired deputy general manager and vice president of The Associated Press, died on Thursday at Greenwich Hospital. He was 81 years old and lived in Greenwich. He died of lung cancer, a family member said. He was deputy general manager of the news agenc
 Louis Joxe, a veteran public servant and senior Gaullist official credited with negotiating Algeria's independence from France, died yesterday in Paris. He was 89 years old. Mr. Joxe's place in history was assured by the success of the talks at Evian-les-Bains in 1962 and the republ
 Louis Joxe, a veteran public servant and senior Gaullist official credited with negotiating Algeria's independence from France, died yesterday in Paris. He was 89 years old. Mr. Joxe's place in history was assured by the success of the talks at Evian-les-Bains in 1962 and the republ
 Dr. Nicholas E. Davies, an internist who was to assume office as president of the American College of Physicians later this week, was killed Friday in the commuter airline crash that also took the life of former Senator John G. Tower. Dr. Davies was 65 years old and lived in Atlanta.       
 Norman Cohen, former president of the Cohen Brothers Dress Corporation in Manhattan and a Florida real-estate developer, died on Wednesday at the Cedars of Lebanon Hospital in Miami. He was 67 years old and lived in Miami. Mr. Cohen died of cancer, his daughter, Jacqueline, said.   
 Somers Hayes Sturgis, a pioneer in birth control research who was a founder of the first abortion clinic in Massachusetts, died Wednesday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 86 years old. He died of lung cancer, said his daughter, Joan Sturgis Mann. Dr. Sturgis was an adv
 Hugh R. Chace, a former senior executive vice president of the Bank of New York, died March 30 at Baptist Medical Center in Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla. He was 86 years old and lived in Ponte Vedra Beach. He died of congestive heart failure, his family said. Mr. Chace, a graduate
 James C. Hill, a former arbitrator of labor-management disputes in New York, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Fort Myers, Fla. He was 76 years old and lived in Fort Myers. Mr. Hill died of congestive heart failure, his daughter-in-law, Florence Bramley Hill, said. He bec
 Louis Joxe, a veteran public servant and senior Gaullist official credited with negotiating Algeria's independence from France, died on Saturday in Paris. He was 89 years old. Mr. Joxe's place in history was assured by the success of the talks at Evian-les-Bains in 1962 and the repu
 Robert F. Andrews, an industrial designer who specialized in streamlining cars, died on Friday at the Flower Hospital in Toledo, Ohio. He was 68 years old and lived in Monroe, Mich. Mr. Andrews died of lung cancer, a family spokesman said. In the early 1960's, he was the chi
 Barry Silverman, a senior partner in the Manhattan law firm of Dornbush, Mandelstam & Silverman, died on Saturday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 57 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of lung cancer, his partner, Charles L. Mandelstam, said. Mr. Silv
 Daniel R. Ginsberg, a lawyer and real-estate developer, died on Saturday in a glider accident in Wurtsboro, N.Y. He was 41 years old and lived in Greenwich, Conn. Mr. Ginsberg was an experienced glider pilot, his family said. He was the son of the late Morris Ginsberg, a shipping ex
 David Meyers, the founder of the Meyers Brothers Parking System Inc., which once operated more than 200 garages and parking lots in the United States, Britain and Puerto Rico, died on Saturday at Hollywood Hospital in Florida. He was 85 years old and lived in Hollywood. He died of a
 Henry Shapiro, a longtime Moscow correspondent for United Press International before he retired in 1973, died on Thursday at Meritor Hospital in Madison, Wis. He was 84 years old and lived in Madison. He died of a stroke, his family said. Mr. Shapiro joined the news agency, 
 John F. Maun Jr., a former advertising director at Bonwit Teller in Manhattan, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 52 years old. Mr. Maun, a native of Queens, was associated with Bonwit Teller in the 1980's. He was advertising director from 1987 until the store's Fifth A
 John MacGregor Blewer, a lawyer and president of Pacific American Investors Inc., an investment counseling concern in Salt Lake City, died on Sunday at his home in Salt Lake City. He was 60 years old. He died of kidney cancer, a spokesman for the family said. Mr. Blewer, a n
 Theodore A. Distler, president emeritus of Franklin and Marshall College, died Sunday at the Homestead Village health care center in Lancaster, Pa. He was 92 years old. Mr. Distler had been in poor health for some time, a spokeswoman for the family said. He was president of 
 Dr. Alfred L. Frechette, a former Massachusetts Health Commissioner, died Sunday at Framingham Union Hospital. He was 81 years old. The cause of death was not disclosed. Dr. Frechette was commissioner from 1959 to 1972 and from 1979 to 1983. In 1979, his order made Massachus
 Arthur Paul Wales, a retired vice president of the Smith Corona Marchant Corporation in Manhattan, died March 27 at a nursing home in Lantana, Fla. He was 73 years old and lived in Lantana. He died of prostate cancer, his son William said. He joined Smith Corona in 1936 as a
 Aubrey Mallach, a former executive of social service organizations in New York City, died on Monday at White Plains Hospital. He was 85 years old and lived in White Plains. He died of complications of bone marrow cancer, family members said. Mr. Mallach was executive directo
 Franklin R. Hall, who directed operations abroad for Exxon, died on March 31 at the Arbors nursing home in Shelburne, Vt., where he lived. He was 74 years old and had lived in Bronxville, N.Y., and New Milford, Conn. He suffered from Alzheimer's disease and died of pneumonia, his fa
 Fred Thormann, retired vice president of Conde Nast Publications, died on Monday at Stamford Hospital in Connecticut. He was 81 years old and lived in Stamford. He died of heart failure, a family spokeswoman said. Mr. Thormann joined Conde Nast in 1936 as an accountant, beca
 Dr. Irwin Philip Sobel, a pediatrician and novelist, died yesterday at St. Barnabas Hospital in the Bronx. He was 89 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of prostate cancer, said his son, Michael. Dr. Sobel was affiliated with Lenox Hill Hospital for six decades and was
 Max Janowski, a composer of Jewish liturgical music, died on Monday at his home in Hyde Park, Ill. He was 79 years old. He died of heart failure, said Howard Helsinger, the president of K.A.M. Isaiah Israel Congregation of Hyde Park, where Mr. Janowski had served as music director s
 Michael Fardink, a pianist and conductor and the music director of opera at Rutgers, died on March 31 at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 36 years old and lived in Elmhurst, Queens. He died of pneumonia, a family spokesman said. A native of Erie, Pa., Mr. Fardink was an active a
 Nicholas G. Marotta, retired president of the National Starch and Chemical Corporation, died on Monday at his home in Watchung, N.J. He was 61 years old. He died of cancer, a spokesman for the family said. He joined the company in 1959 as a food chemist after several years w
 Dr. Thomas B. Meade, a Brooklyn periodontist, died on Saturday at Mercy Hospital in Rockville Centre, L.I. He was 75 years old and lived in Brooklyn. He died of the effects of a stroke that had left him partly paralyzed nine years ago, his family said. Dr. Meade was born in 
 Dr. Barrett Scoville, a pharmaceutical executive and medical school professor, was killed Sunday when his single-engine plane crashed on takeoff at the Great Barrington Airport in Massachusetts. He was 55 years old and lived in Washington. Dr. Scoville, a seasoned pilot who had made
 John G. Nesbett, founder of the New York mutual fund that became the Dreyfus Fund, died on Friday at Indian River Memorial Hospital in Vero Beach, Fla. He was 88 years old and lived in Vero Beach. He died of heart failure, his daughter-in-law, Jane, said. In 1947, running a 
 Otto C. Neumann, a commissioner of the Connecticut Department of Public Utility Control and former state representative, died at Hartford Hospital on Monday. He was 55 years old. He died after developing complications from surgery. Mr. Neumann, a Republican, was first appoin
 Forrest G. (Spec) Towns, who parlayed a barefoot backyard high jump into a world-record career as a hurdler and then spent 34 years coaching championship track teams at the University of Georgia, died on Tuesday at the Athens Regional Medical Center in Georgia. His family said he ha
 Thomas M. Sullivan, a civil engineer who played a central role in the development of both Kennedy International Airport and the Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport, died Sunday at Humana Hospital Medical City in Dallas. He was 77 years old and lived in Dallas. He died of heart f
 Charles Fleschner, a demolition contractor who helped dismantle buildings at the 1939 World's Fair, died on Wednesday at his home in Hollywood, Fla. He was 90 years old. He died of heart failure, said his daughter Bette Lerner of Metuchen, N.J. Mr. Fleschner, working for the
 Charles H. Goren, one of the greatest figures in the history of contract bridge, died on April 3 in Encino, Calif., one month after celebrating his 90th birthday. His nephew, Marvin Goren, with whom he had lived for the last 19 years, said yesterday that Mr. Goren had suffered a hea
 Frederick A. Crane, who taught history at Bard College from 1949 to 1978, died on Monday at Northern Dutchess Hospital in Rhinebeck, N.Y. He was 80 years old and lived in Rhinebeck. He died of respiratory arrest, a funeral home spokesman said. Professor Crane, a native of El
 Harry Ginsberg, a philanthropist and industrialist who founded the National Container Corporation, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 102 years old. He died of heart failure, said his son-in-law, Murray Steyer. Mr. Ginsberg was born in Russia in 1888 and came t
 Joseph J. Greenberg, the sculptor of the black granite Bear and Cub at the Philadelphia Zoo and many other public sculptures, has died of heart failure. He was 75 years old. Mr. Greenberg, a versatile and prolific artist, produced works ranging from realistic stone carvings of anima
 Dr. Leonard Greenburg, New York City's first Commissioner of Air Pollution Control and a professor emeritus of preventive medicine at Yeshiva University, died on March 13 at Manor Nursing Home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 98 years old and lived in Sarasota. He died of pneumonia, said hi
 Norris M. Shimabuku, an actor and member of the Pan Asian Repertory Theater, died in his sleep on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 44 years old. The cause of death is to be determined after an autopsy, according to Russell Murphy, a business associate of the theater.      
 Philip Minor, who directed plays and musical productions in New York and around the country, died on Tuesday at his brother's home in Pennington, N.J. He was 63 years old. He died of prostate cancer, his sister, Virginia, said. In a career that spanned four decades, Mr. Mino
 Samuel M. Lambert, retired executive secretary of the National Education Association, the country's largest professional union, died Tuesday at his home in Washington. He was 78 years old. Dr. Lambert died of cancer, a spokesman for the family said. He was with the associati
 A. Goodwin Cooke, a retired lawyer and yachtsman who served as president of the Destroyer Escort Captains Organization, died on Thursday at Whitney Center, a retirement community in Hamden, Conn. He was 86 years old and had moved to Whitney Center from Branford, Conn., about five years ago 
 David Scribner, a lawyer who specialized in civil liberties and labor law, died on Wednesday at the Kingsbridge Center of the Jewish Home and Hospital for the Aged in the Bronx. He was 84 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of heart failure, his family said. In a caree
 Dick Manning, a composer, lyricist and songwriter, died on Thursday in Marietta, Ga. He was 79 years old and lived in New York City. He died of complications from diabetes, his daughter, Ruth Kramer, said. Mr. Manning wrote many popular songs, among them "Takes Two to Tango,
 Fredson Bowers, a specialist in manuscript editing and bibliography, died in his sleep on Thursday at his home in Charlottesville, Va. He was 85 years old. The cause of death had not been determined yesterday, said a spokesman for Hill & Wood Funeral Home in Charlottesville.        
 G. Russell Clark, who as superintendent of banking under Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller paved the way for New York City banks to expand into the suburbs, died on Wednesday at Broward General Hospital in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 87 years old and lived in Fort Lauderdale. He died of c
 Henry Glover, a producer, arranger and talent scout for King Records, died in St. Albans, Queens, on Sunday. He was 69 years old. He died of a heart attack, his daughter, Leslie Glover, said. Mr. Glover, one of the most influential recording executives of the 1950's, supervi
 James Schuyler, who won the 1981 Pulitzer Prize for poetry, died early yesterday morning at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 67 years old and lived in Manhattan. He was admitted to the hospital on April 5 after a stroke, said Amelia Durand, a spokeswoman for his publishers, Farrar, St
 Jim Forsberg, a printmaker and painter, died on April 7 at his home in Provincetown, Mass. He was 71 years old. The cause of death was chronic obstructive lung disease, his daughter said. Mr. Forsberg's recent collage-paintings, exhibited ealier this year at the Stuart Levy 
 John H. Humpstone, a real estate executive and former Foreign Service official, died yesterday at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 86 years old. He died of cardiorespiratory failure, said his son Charles. Mr. Humpstone, who lived in Washington, was assist
 Kevin Peter Hall, the 7-foot-2-inch star of the movie and the television series "Harry and the Hendersons," died on Wednesday of pneumonia. He was 35 years old. The towering Mr. Hall, a native of Pittsburgh, played the lovable "Bigfoot" character in the 1987 feature film "Harry," as
 Richard M. Rosen, a New York lawyer who was assistant for cultural affairs in John V. Lindsay's first administration, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 55 years old. He died of pneumonia, his brother, Hilton, said. At his death, Mr. Rosen was counsel to the M
 William C. Fine, retired chairman of the Sherwin-Williams Company, the paint manufacturer, died Tuesday at his home in Boynton Beach, Fla. He was 73 years old and had lived for many years before retirement in Rocky River, Ohio. He died of Alzheimer's disease, his family said.       
 Charles Wolf, a diamond merchant, died on April 6 at Beth Israel Hospital. He was 90 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of a heart attack, said his grandson Clifford. Mr. Wolf came to the United States from Antwerp, Belgium, in 1940 and established Charles Wolf & Sons
 Herbert Adler, a garment industry executive and entrepreneur, died on Wednesday at Bethesda Medical Center in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 72 years old and lived in Cleveland and Palm Beach. He died of kidney failure, said his wife, the former Dorothy Schepps. Mr. Adler, a certif
 Leonard F. Schmitt, a lawyer who challenged Senator Joseph R. McCarthy of Wisconsin in the 1952 Republican primary, at the height of Mr. McCarthy's anti-Communist campaign, died Thursday at the Good Samaritan Health Center in Merrill, Wis. He was 88 years old and lived in Merrill. H
 Orville Alvin Vogel, a wheat breeder whose research made possible the "Green Revolution" in world food production, died Friday at the convalescent center of the Panoramic City retirement village in Lacey, Wash. He was 83 years old and lived at Panoramic City. He died of cancer, his 
 Owen M. Kupferschmid, a lawyer who was legal director of the Debt-for-Development Foundation in Washington, died on Tuesday at a New York Health and Racquet Club gymnasium on East 45th Street. He was 33 years old and lived in Manhattan. A long-distance runner, he died of a heart att
 Thomas A. Thompson, president of Thompson Associates in Manhattan, on Friday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 59 years old and lived in Ardsley, N.Y. He died of cancer, a spokesman for the family said. He started his company in 1987. It produces reports for companies
 Maurice Binder, a graphic arts designer known chiefly for his dazzling title sequences in the James Bond films, died on Tuesday at the University College Hospital in London. He was 73 years old and lived in London. He died of lung cancer, his brother, Mitchell, said. Mr. Bin
 Orville Alvin Vogel, a wheat breeder whose research made possible the "Green Revolution" in world food production, died Friday at the convalescent center of the Panoramic City retirement village in Lacey, Wash. He was 83 years old and lived at Panoramic City. He died of cancer, his 
 Robert LoBianco, a producer of avant-garde and experimental theater, died on Thursday at the New Yrok University Medical Center. He was 44 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of tuberculosis, his stepmother, Joan LoBianco,said. Mr. LoBianco co-produced the 1976 opening
 Yosef Tekoah, one of Israel's foremost diplomats, a longtime representative to the United Nations and chancellor of Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, died yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 65 years old. He had also served as Ambassador to the Soviet Union and Brazil.    
 Emanuel P. La Motta, an internist, died on Friday at St. Peter's Medical Center in New Brunswick, N.J. He was 81 years old and had lived in Somerset, N.J., for three years. He died of cancer, a spokesman for the family said. Dr. La Motta retired in 1986 after being in privat
 Francis X. McDermott, a retired lawyer and New York City police officer, died on Sunday at New Rochelle Hospital. He was 74 years old and lived in Bronxville, N.Y. Mr. McDermott died of a heart attack, a spokeswoman for the family said. He joined the New York City Police Dep
 Dr. Irwin Hanover, a podiatrist who founded and published the Journal of Current Podiatric Medicine, died on Sunday at the Orlando Regional Medical Center in Florida. He was 75 years old and lived in Orlando. He died of heart failure, his family said. Dr. Hanover was born in
 James Merritt Brownlow, a research scientist who helped to develop memory cores for computers and integrated semi-conductor circuits in 34 years with International Business Machines, died Thursday at his home in Norwich, Vt. He was 70 years old. He died of a brain tumor, a spokesman
 Lee Sabinson, a Broadway producer and film executive, died on Sunday at Englewood (N.J.) Hospital. He was 79 years old and lived at the Actors' Fund Home in Englewood. He died of pneumonia and congestive heart failure, his brother, Harvey, said. Mr. Sabinson's greatest Broad
 Qin Benli, a legendary Chinese newspaper editor whose dismissal in early 1989 gave additional impetus to the Tiananmen democracy movement, died early this morning in Shanghai, a close associate said. He was 73 years old. Mr. Qin died of stomach cancer, the associate said. Th
 Randolfo Pacciardi, an Italian anti-Fascist who organized Italian-American volunteers to fight with the Allies in World War II, died on Sunday in Rome. He was 91 years old. Mr. Pacciardi, who was born in the Tuscan town of Grosseto, fought in World War I as a teen-ager and was award
 Yosef Tekoah, one of Israel's foremost diplomats, its representative at the United Nations for seven years, and chancellor of Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, died Sunday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 65 years old. He had also served as Ambassador to the Soviet Union and Braz
 Sir David Lean, the leading British director of both intimate films like "Brief Encounter" and "Great Expectations" and epics like "Bridge on the River Kwai" and "Lawrence of Arabia," died yesterday at his home in London. He was 83 years old. His death was announced in London by his
 Homer Bigart, one of the most accomplished reporters in American journalism, died yesterday at the Edgewood Center in Portsmouth, N.H., where he had been hospitalized for two months. Mr. Bigart, who wrote for both The New York Herald Tribune and The New York Times, was 83 years old and live
 Homer Bigart, one of the most accomplished reporters in American journalism, died yesterday at the Edgewood Center in Portsmouth, N.H., where he had been hospitalized for two months. Mr. Bigart, who wrote for both The New York Herald Tribune and The New York Times, was 83 years old and live
 Roman Jasinski, one of the stars of the cosmopolitan Ballets Russes companies that flourished from the 1930's to the 50's and a leader in American regional ballet, died yesterday morning at St. John's Medical Center in Tulsa, Okla. He was 83 years old. He died of congestive heart fa
 Seymour Freidin, a longtime foreign correspondent and author who reported from Eastern Europe during the cold war, died on Friday in Charlottesville, Va., where he lived in retirement. He was 73 years old. He died of complications from a stroke, said a spokesman for the Hearst Corpo
 Arthur H. DesGrey, who served for 41 years as an administrator of athletics and a teacher at City College, died Sunday in Miami Shores, Fla. He was 86 years old. Loretta Olson, one of Mr. DesGrey's friends, said he had died of lung cancer. Mr. DesGrey, who had an undergradua
 Benjamin Franklin Baer, chairman of the United States Parole Commission, died April 9 at Washington Hospital Center in Washington. He was 73 years old and lived in Rockville, Md. He died after surgery for a heart ailment, a spokeswoman for the family said. Mr. Baer joined th
 Robert E. (Bobby) Dill, a former New York Rangers defenseman and member of the United States Hockey Hall of Fame, died Tuesday in St. John's Hospice. He was 71 years old. His son Robert Jr. said that Mr. Dill had died of liver cancer. Mr. Dill earned a reputation for feistin
 David K. Kadane, a law professor and a former general counsel for the Long Island Lighting Company, died on Saturday at his home in Rockville Centre, L.I. He was 77 years old. He died of a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Kadane was the Harry H. Rains Distinguished Profess
 George A. Diamond, an architect who designed many religious and educational buildings, died on Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 67 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of lung cancer, his wife said. Mr. Diamond, a graduate of the Co
 Howard Lane Rubendall, a clergyman who was the retired president of Dickinson College in Carlisle, Pa., died Saturday at his home in Naples, Fla. He was 80 years old. He died of respiratory failure resulting from cancer, a spokesman for the college said. Dr. Rubendall was pr
 James F. Garrett, executive vice president of the World Rehabilitation Fund, which trains doctors and provides services in physical medicine and rehabilitation, died Tuesday at the Hospice of Northern Virginia in Arlington. He was 75 years old and lived in Falls Church, Va. He died 
 James R. Graham, a Madison Avenue art dealer specializing in American art, died on Monday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 83 years old and lived in Bayside, Queens. He died of a heart attack, said a nephew, Robert C. Graham Jr., the president of Graham G
 Jerry Davis, a writer and producer of "The Odd Couple" and other television series, died last Thursday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 73 years old and lived in Beverly Hills. He died of complications from a stroke, a family spokeswoman said. Mr. Davis,
 Joseph M. Cosenza, the chief architect for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, died on April 10 at St. Francis Hospital in Roslyn, L.I. He was 60 years old and lived in Bayside, Queens. He died of cancer, a family spokesman said. Mr. Cosenza joined the Port Author
 Lawrence W. Hill, a music-theater director and conductor, died last Friday at Roosevelt Hospital. He was 41 years old and lived in Manhattan. The cause of death was bacterial pneumonia, said his former wife, Meredyth Rawlins. Mr. Hill was the music director and conductor for
 Marshall Smith Lachner, an executive in the soap, beer and cosmetics industries, died on Sunday at the Hospice by the Sea in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 76 years old and lived in Boca Raton and Lodi, Wis. He died of cancer, a son said. Mr. Lachner started his career with the R. 
 Myron A. Ellis, a lawyer for almost 60 years, died on Tuesday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of heart failure, his daughter, Patricia, said. Mr. Ellis, a graduate of St. John's University Law School, formed the firm Ell
 Carl H. T. Sloss, a retired advertising director and former co-publisher and advertising director of Esquire Inc.'s Apparel Arts, died yesterday at his home in Strasburg, Pa. He was 87 years old. Mr. Sloss died of congestive heart failure, his wife, the former Kathleen Boland, said.
 Edward Pulling, the founder of the Millbrook School in Millbrook, N.Y., and its headmaster for 34 years, died on Wednesday at his home in Oyster Bay, L.I. He was 92 years old. He died of heart failure, his daughter Lucy said. Mr. Pulling was born in England, graduated from P
 Evan M. Frankel, a Manhattan builder who became one of the largest landowners in East Hampton, L.I., where he fought steadfastly for half a century to preserve the Island's South Fork from development, died on Wednesday at his home in East Hampton. He was 90 years old. He died of he
 Jack Yellen, who wrote the lyrics for songs including "Happy Days Are Here Again," died Wednesday at his home in Springville, N.Y. He was 97 years old. He had been bedridden and under nursing care for 15 years, said Bob Buyer, a reporter for The Buffalo News and a friend of the fami
 Philip H. Steckler Jr., a New York stockbroker, died on Wednesday at New York Hospital. He was 72 years old and lived in Purchase, N.Y., and Wilmington, Vt. Mr. Steckler died after a series of operations for cancer, a spokesman for the family said. He was a senior partner in
 Robert H. Baraz, a senior State Department adviser and a high-ranking intelligence expert, died Tuesday at a Hospital in Arlington, Va. He was 61 years old and lived in Falls Church, Va. Mr. Baraz died of a stroke, a spokeswoman for the State Department said. At the time of 
 Robert Sharp Stitt, a retired New York lawyer who raised warnings five years ago about the instability of Rhode Island banks, died on Wednesday at Rhode Island Hospital in Providence. He was 64 years old and lived in East Greenwich, R.I., where he had moved from Manhattan in 1984. H
 Ron Bottcher, a baritone who sang with the Metropolitan Opera and the New York City Opera, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 50 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of AIDS, a friend, Dennis McGovern, said. Mr. Bottcher was born in Sandpoint, Idaho. He atten
 Sergio Peresson, an Italian-born violin maker who crafted instruments for some of the leading soloists, died of a heart attack on Tuesday at his home. He was 78 years old. Mr. Peresson made violins for Isaac Stern, Jaime Laredo, Eugene Fodor and Ivan Galamian, among others. He also 
 Sharon Clay Risk, a lawyer who was a former associate director of corporate finance for the Federal Communications Commission, died Wednesday at Bellevue Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 71 years old and lived in Chevy Chase, Md. He suffered a heart attack in Manhattan while pla
 Benjamin Lipton, a pioneer in establishing training programs for the disabled and a founder of sports programs for wheelchair-bound athletes, died yesterday, at his home in Malverne, L.I. He was 79 years old. He died of Alzheimer's disease, said his wife, the former Anne Earl.      
 Gabriel Celaya, a poet and essayist who became a leader of literary protest against the dictatorship of Gen. Francisco Franco, died on Thursday in a Madrid hospital. He was 80 years old. Mr. Celaya died of cardiac arrest after a bout of internal bleeding, said a statement issued by 
 Dr. Herbert I. Calman, an educator and dentist in Manhattan for more than 45 years, died yesterday at the Westchester Medical Center in Valhalla, N.Y. He was 77 years old and lived in Mamaroneck, N.Y. He died of heart failure, said his son, Michael. Dr. Calman graduated from
 Irwin N. Alberts, a publishing executive, died on Thursday at his home in East Hampton, L.I. He was 57 years old. Mr. Alberts died of multiple myeloma, or cancer of the bone marrow, said a spokeswoman for the family. He was a past president and chief executive officer of Pan
 Marchmont Schwartz, a two-time all-America running back at Notre Dame who later became head football coach at Stanford, died of heart failure Thursday. He was 82 years old. Mr. Schwartz was hospitalized in nearby Walnut Creek after suffering a heart attack about two weeks ago, John 
 Sir Austin Bradford Hill, a pioneering epidemiologist who led one of the first research teams to establish a link between smoking and cancer, died on Thursday, his son said today. He was 93 years old. Sir Austin died at his home near Windermere in the Lake District of northwestern E
 Thomas A. Connolly, a retired Archbishop of Seattle who was the oldest Roman Catholic bishop in the United States, died Thursday at his home here. He was 91 years old and had been in poor health for several years. Archbishop Connolly headed the Seattle Archdiocese from 1948 to 1975,
 Steve Marriott, who was the leader of Humble Pie and a member of the British rock group Small Faces, died today in a fire at his home, the police said. He was 44 years old. Mr. Marriott, who had just returned from a two-week recording session in the United States with Peter Frampton
 Emmanuel Kiwanuka Cardinal Nsubuga, the former head of the Roman Catholic Church in Uganda and an opponent of human rights abuses under the military dictatorship of President Idi Amin, died on Saturday, a church official said today. He was 76 years old. A church spokesman, the Rev. 
 Jerome Sanford Glazer, a New Orleans businessman and developer long active in political and civic affairs, died early Saturday at his home. He was 66 years old. The family said Mr. Glazer had died of a heart attack. Mr. Glazer was chairman and chief executive of Glazer Steel
 Richard Bolling, a Missouri Democrat who served 17 terms in Congress until his retirement in 1982, died today at age 74. Mr. Bolling apparently died of a heart attack and was found in his home in Washington by his wife, said Representative Alan Wheat who succeeded Mr. Bolling in the
 Sean O'Faolain, an Irish writer who was considered a master of the short story, died on Saturday in the Dublin nursing home where he had lived for two years. He was 91 years old. A spokeswoman for Aclare House, the nursing home, said only that Mr. O'Faolain had died after a short il
 Bucky Walters, a pitching star for the Cincinnati Reds in the late 1930's and 40's and a six-time National League All-Star, died Saturday at Abington Memorial Hospital. He was 82 years old. The cause of death was not disclosed. During 19 years in the major leagues, Mr. Walte
 Fred Levy Jr., one of the owners of the National Football League Rams when they moved from Cleveland to Los Angeles in 1946, died of natural causes Sunday at his home in Palm Springs. He was 89 years old. Mr. Levy and Dan Reeves bought the Rams in 1941, and Mr. Levy owned part of th
 John A. Wilson, a retired partner in the Manhattan law firm of Shearman & Sterling, died on Saturday at Englewood Hospital in New Jersey. He was 90 years old and lived in Tenafly, N.J. He died of pneumonia, a spokesman for the law firm said. Mr. Wilson, a partner in Shearman
 John H. Payne Jr., a banker and former president of the Empire National Bank in New City, N.Y., died on Friday at South Seminole Hospital in Longwood, Fla. He was 75 years old and lived in Longwood. He died of a circulatory disorder, his son, John 3d, said. Mr. Payne graduat
 Mark L. Rosen, a senior partner in the Manhattan law firm of Siff, Rosen & Parker, died on Sunday at his home in Hartsdale, N.Y. He was 48 years old. He died of kidney cancer, an associate of the law firm said. Mr. Rosen, a graduate of George Washington University Law School
 Rea Hopper, a former associate of the industrialist Howard R. Hughes who was the chief designer of the Spruce Goose, a huge plywood flying boat, died on Friday at the Berkeley East nursing home in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 85 years old and lived in Los Angeles. He died of pneumoni
 Richard Bolling, who as a Representative from Missouri taught liberal Democrats to use rules and caucuses to take control of the House, died here Sunday at the age of 74. Mr. Bolling apparently had a heart attack, said Representative Alan Wheat of Kansas City, who succeeded the 17-t
 Richard J. Margolis, a freelance writer and columnist on social issues for The New Leader magazine, died yesterday at Yale-New Haven Hospital. He was 61 years old. He died of heart failure, said his wife, Diane. He had a kidney transplant two months ago. In addition to freel
 Robert Kovich, a choreographer and teacher who performed with the Merce Cunningham Dance Company in the 1970's and early 1980's, died on Sunday night at a friend's Manhattan home. He was 40. Mr. Kovich died of cancer, said Carol Blanco, the manager of the Robert Kovich Company.     
 Roger Howdyshell, owner of one of the nation's few remaining manufacturers of toy marbles, died Thursday. He was 67 years old. The cause of death was not disclosed. Mr. Howdyshell had owned Marble King Inc. of Paden City, W. Va., for the last decade. He had been with the com
 Ron Hays, an Emmy Award-winning multi-media artist whose creations melded computerized film, slides, synthesizers and music, died on April 16 at Daniel Freeman Marina Hospital in Marina del Rey, Calif. He was 45 years old. He died of complications from AIDS, said his business partne
 Mongolia's former Stalinist leader, Yumzhagiin Tsedenbal, died Saturday in Moscow, where he lived in exile after more than three decades of iron rule, the Foreign Ministry said today. He was 74 years old. A ministry official said Mr. Tsedenbal, a shepherd's son who was a teacher at 
 Angus D. Henderson, who started his civil engineering career by taking a correspondence course and rose to become an authority on public water-supply systems through his work on Long Island, died on Wednesday at the R. H. Dedman Memorial Hospital in Dallas. He was 84 years old and lived in 
 Bucky Walters, a pitching star for the Cincinnati Reds in the late 1930's and in the 1940's and a six-time National League All-Star, died Saturday at Abington Memorial Hospital. He was 82 years old. The cause of death was not disclosed. During 19 years in the major leagues, 
 Don Siegel, a director of tough, cynical and forthright action-adventure films whose taut plots centered on individualistic loners, died on Saturday at his home in Nipomo, Calif. He was 78 years old. He died of cancer, a family spokesman said. Mr. Siegel worked his way up at
 Fred Levy Jr., one of the owners of the National Football League Rams when they moved from Cleveland to Los Angeles in 1946, died Sunday at his home in Palm Springs. He was 89 years old. Mr. Levy and Dan Reeves bought the Rams in 1941, and Mr. Levy owned part of the team, with Bob H
 Henry T. Harrison, a meteorologist who accompanied Rear Adm. Richard E. Byrd on his first Antarctic expedition in 1929-30, died Sunday at Deerfield, a retirement home in Asheville, N.C. He was 87 years old. The cause of death was probably Alzheimer's disease, said his wife, Grace. S
 Jack (Kid) Berg of England, the world junior-welterweight boxing champion for 14 months in 1930 and 1931 and a whirlwind puncher who was popular in the New York area throughout the 1930's, died on Monday in London. He was 81 years old. British newspapers reported that his death came after a
 John Frasier Weiffenbach, a retired mechanical engineer who helped develop diesel locomotives, died on Monday at his home in Branford, Conn. He was 80 years old. He died of respiratory arrest, a funeral home representative said. Mr. Weiffenbach worked on diesel locomotives d
 John Ethelbert Leslie, a lawyer, accountant and former chairman and chief executive of Bache & Company, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 80 years old. He died of cancer, his wife said. Mr. Leslie was head of Bache & Company, now known as Prudential Securities 
 Joseph Lovinger, a Jewish official in Greece for the last quarter-century and a vice president of the European Jewish Congress since 1985, died on April 9 at a clinic in Athens. He was 77 years old and lived in Athens. He died of cancer of the bile duct, his family said. Mr.
 Karl Klasen, president of West Germany's central bank in the 1970's and a leading figure in world banking, died on Monday in Hamburg, Germany, where he lived. He was 81 years old. His death was disclosed in Frankfurt by the Bundesbank, which he ran from 1970 to 1977. The cause of hi
 Michael J. Wallace, president of Towne-Oller & Associates, a marketing research company in Manhattan, died on Saturday at his home in New Caanan, Conn. He was 56 years old. Mr. Wallace died of cancer, a spokeswoman for the family said. He joined the firm in 1956 and, after s
 Willi Boskovsky, a master waltz violinist and conductor, died here on Sunday. He was 81 and lived in Visp, a mountain town 100 miles east of Geneva. Friends said he died after a third stroke, Swiss newspapers reported today. Mr. Boskosvky was born in Vienna on June 16, 1909,
 Andrew Boyle, an author and broadcaster whose 1979 book, "The Climate of Treason," led to the exposure of the "fourth man" in a notorious Soviet spy ring in Britain, died of cancer on Monday, his family announced Tuesday. He was 71 years old. Mr. Boyle was convinced of the complicit
 Arthur Derounian, who as John Roy Carlson wrote "Under Cover,"a 1943 book detailing Fascist activities in the United States before and during World War II, died on Tuesday at the library of the American Jewish Committee on East 56th Street. He was 82 years old. Mr. Derounian was eng
 Dr. Choh-Ming Li, an economist who taught at the University of California at Berkeley and who in 1963 founded the Chinese University of Hong Kong, died on Sunday at his home in Berkeley. He was 79 years old. He died of cancer, the university said. Dr. Li was a professor in t
 Clio Edwin Straight, a retired Army brigadier general who prosecuted hundreds of war crimes cases in Germany after World War II, died Monday at St. Francis Hospital in Wilmington, Del. He was 96 years old and lived in Greenville, Del. He died of pneumonia, a spokesman for a funeral 
 Henry B. Hansteen, a retired electrical engineering professor who did research under the nuclear physicist Enrico Fermi, died on Tuesday at age 86. Mr. Hansteen, who jumped off a bridge on the Cornell University campus into Fall Creek, had been ill and suffering from depression for 
 Humberto Hernandez, a minister in the Seventh-Day Adventist Church and its director of Hispanic Ministries in the New York City area, died on Thursday while visiting his daughter in Alma, Mich. He was 59 years old and lived in Mamaroneck, N.Y. He died of pancreatic cancer, a church 
 Johnny Thunders, a rock guitarist and songwriter who was a founding member of the New York Dolls, died Tuesday morning in New Orleans. He was 38 years old. The cause of his death is unknown and an autopsy has been ordered, his sister, Mariann Bracken, said. The New York Doll
 Roy W. Jastram, professor emeritus of business administration at the University of California at Berkeley, died on Friday at a nursing home in Glendora, Calif. He was 76 years old and had lived in Carmel Valley, Calif., for many years. He died of a respiratory ailment, the universit
 Dr. Vincent John Geraci, who delivered thousands of babies in more than 40 years as a family physician in Brooklyn, died on Monday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 76 years old and lived in Glen Cove, L.I. He died of cardiac arrest, his wife said.        
 Herman Miles Somers, professor emeritus of politics and public affairs at Princeton University, died Tuesday at his home in Pennswood Village in Newton, Pa. He was 80 years old. He died of complications of a stroke, said a spokesman for Princeton. Dr. Somers retired in 1979 
 Joseph S. Lord 3d, a senior judge of the Federal District Court in Philadelphia who was known for his decisions on rights issues, died on Tuesday at Presbyterian Hospital in Philadelphia. He was 78 years old and lived in the Germantown section of Philadelphia. He died of cardiac arr
 Laz Barrera, the Cuban-born trainer who won the 1976 Kentucky Derby and Belmont Stakes with Bold Forbes and the 1978 Triple Crown with Affirmed, died yesterday at Rio Hondo Hospital in Downey, Calif. He was 66 years old and had been suffering from an inflammation of the lungs, accor
 Menke Katz, a poet who gained note for his personal lyrical style in both English and Yiddish, died on Wednesday at his home in Spring Glen, N.Y. He was 85 years old and was the author of 18 books of poetry, 9 in each of the two languages. He died of a heart attack, his son, Dovid K
 Michael Kuhnen, Germany's top neo-Nazi leader, died today at a hospital in the western German city of Kassel. He was 35 years old. Medical officials refused to disclose the cause of death. Mr. Kuhnen had been hospitalized for two weeks, and German newspapers said he had been ill for
 Paul Brickhill, author of "The Great Escape" and other war novels that sold millions of copies and were made into films, died on Tuesday. He was 74 years old. The cause of his death was not immediately available. Mr. Brickhill was a journalist on The Sun newspaper in Sydney 
 Paul Cortissoz, a professor of English, died on Wednesday at Westchester County Medical Center in Valhalla, N.Y. He was 66 years old and lived in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y. He died of a tumor, his daughter Marie said. He joined the English and world literature department of Manh
 Samuel L. Becker, a retired chairman of New York City's Board of Standards and Appeals who worked for city government for 51 years, died on Wednesday at Long Island Jewish Hospital. He was 90 years old and lived in the Bronx. He died of heart failure, said his son-in-law, Sheldon Lo
 Sidney S. Greenberg, a New York internist for nearly 50 years, died on Monday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 78 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of cancer, said his son, Peter. Dr. Greenberg was a pioneer in the treatment of alcoholism and drug addiction. He 
 William Dozier, who produced the campy "Batman" television series, died on Tuesday at St. John's Hospital and Health Center here. He was 83 years old. A hospital spokeswoman said he died of a stroke. Mr. Dozier was born in Omaha, studied at Creighton University and became a 
 A. B. Guthrie Jr., a Kentucky journalist who turned to fiction and won a Pulitizer Prize as one of the century's leading Western historical novelists, died yesterday at his home at Choteau, Mont. He was 90 years old. Carl D. Brandt, his agent, said he had died of lung failure. He ha
 A. B. Guthrie Jr., a Kentucky journalist who turned to fiction and won a Pulitizer Prize as one of the century's leading Western historical novelists, died yesterday at his home at Choteau, Mont. He was 90 years old. Carl D. Brandt, his agent, said he had died of lung failure. He ha
 Carmine Coppola, a conductor and Oscar-winning composer for his son's film "The Godfather Part II," died yesterday morning at Northridge (Calif.) Hospital Medical Center. He was 80 years old and lived in Los Angeles. Mr. Coppola also wrote the widely acclaimed score for the restored
 David Lubart, a retired senior partner in the Manhattan law firm Stroock, Stroock & Lavan, died on Thursday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 76 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of multiple myeloma, said his son, Thomas. Mr. Lubart retired about 10 years ago whe
 Edward H. Gauer, a San Francisco clothier who founded the Roos/ Atkins chain, died of complications of emphysema on Tuesday at the Eisenhower Medical Center near Palm Desert. He was 88 years old. Mr. Gauer was a boy when he entered the men's wear business as a journeyman hatter in D
 Frank Hamilton, a stage, film and television actor, died on Thursday at Brotman Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 66 years old and lived in Manhattan and Los Angeles. He died of prostate cancer, his daughter Samantha said. Most of Mr. Hamilton's 45-year career was in New
 Jack B. Collins, whose career was spent in public service, died on Thursday at his home in Southbury, Conn. He was 74 years old. He died of cancer, said John Tebbel, a neighbor and close friend of the family. From 1953 to 1957 Mr. Collins was a senior financial adviser at th
 State Senator Jack Doland, who was head football coach and then president of McNeese State University here before entering politics, died of prostate cancer on Thursday. Mr. Doland, a Democrat, was 63 years old. He was an assistant football coach at Louisiana State University from 1
 Jean-Baptiste Cerrone, who managed several major dance companies from the 1930's through the 80's, died on Wednesday at North Broward Hospital in Pompano Beach, Fla. He was 79 years old and lived in Deerfield Beach, Fla., and Nice, France. Mr. Cerrone was known to generations of dan
 Leonard Eisner, a concert pianist and teacher, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 70 years old. He died of a heart attack, said his brother, Harold Eisner of Rockville Center. In a review of his 1946 debut recital at Town Hall, Noel Straus of The New York Time
 Wendall Garnett, secretary of the board of the Congress of Racial Equality, died on Monday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 58 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of a heart attack, a funeral home representative said. Mr. Garnett joined the 
 Carmine Coppola, a conductor and Oscar-winning composer for his son's film "The Godfather Part II," died Friday morning at Northridge Hospital Medical Center in Northridge, Calif. He was 80 years old and lived in Los Angeles. Mr. Coppola also wrote the widely acclaimed score for the
 Bishop Thaddeus A. Shubsda of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Monterey, died of cancer on Friday. He was 66 years old. In his nine years as head of the Monterey Diocese, Bishop Shubsda worked to improve the lives of farmworkers and support people with AIDS. He acted as a media
 Floyd B. McKissick, an early leader of the civil rights movement who was named a state district judge in North Carolina last June, died Sunday at his home in Durham, N.C. He was 69 years old. He died of lung cancer, said his son, Floyd Jr., his partner in the law firm of McKissick &
 Howard Lanin, a band leader whose orchestra played for many well-known families, died on Friday at Jefferson Hospital in Philadelphia. He was 93 years old. He died of pneumonia, his son Myron said. Mr. Lanin was born in Philadelphia and began his professional career as a mus
 Lee Wulff, one of the world's best known and most respected sports fishermen, as well as an author, lecturer, artist and film maker, died Sunday when the light plane he was flying crashed into a wooded hillside near Hancock, N.Y. He was 86 years old. When the plane crashed, Mr. Wulf
 Samuel Berman, a Brooklyn Democratic district leader and former New York State Assemblyman, died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 80 years old and lived in Brooklyn. He died of a heart attack, said his daughter, Arlene Brody of Stamford, Conn. Mr. Berm
