 E.R. Haggar Sr., a son of a Lebanese immigrant who helped build a family clothing store in Texas into a national brand of slacks and shirts, died on Tuesday at his home in Dallas. He was 88. His death was announced by Haggar Clothing at its headquarters in Dallas. Mr. Haggar
 Rudolf Gerold Wunderlich, a leading expert and dealer in American art for a half century, much of that time as president of the Kennedy Galleries in Manhattan, died on Sept. 22 in Fountain Valley, Calif. He was 83 and had retired to Laguna Woods, Calif. The cause was complications o
 Richard Avedon, whose fashion and portrait photographs helped define America's image of style, beauty and culture for the last half-century, died yesterday in a hospital in San Antonio. He was 81 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications of a cerebral hemorrhage suffered l
 Edward Silver, a prominent labor lawyer who was the first chairman of New York City's Civilian Complaint Review Board, which monitors police conduct, died on Friday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 83. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his family said. Mr. Silver repres
 Jacques Levy, an educator, a theater director and a lyricist whose Broadway credits include the musical ''Oh! Calcutta,'' died Thursday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 69 and lived in SoHo. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Levy had long been acti
 Joseph Brouillard, founder of a corporate communications agency bearing his name, died on Sept. 24 at his home in Montpelier, Vt. He was 79. The cause was a stroke, said William C. Lyddan Jr., president and chief executive of Brouillard Communications, now part of the WPP Group.    
 Dr. Philip H. Sechzer, a New York anesthesiologist who studied pain and was one of the developers of a system that allows patients to medicate themselves for relief, died on Sept. 26 at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 90. Dr. Sechzer died after a variety of medical p
 Gordon Cooper, the astronaut who flew the last of the pioneering Mercury space missions and stayed aloft in a Gemini capsule long enough to demonstrate that a trip to the moon was feasible, died Monday at his home in Ventura, Calif., NASA said. He was 77. He died of natural causes, 
 Rodney Dangerfield, the paunchy, goggle-eyed comedian whose fidgety delivery and sad-sack catch phrase ''I don't get no respect'' brought him cult status and eventually wider fame, died yesterday in a Los Angeles hospital. He was 82. The cause was complications after heart valve rep
 Maurice H.F. Wilkins, a Nobel Prize-winning scientist who contributed to the discovery of the structure of DNA by Dr. James D. Watson and Dr. Francis H.C. Crick, died yesterday in London, according to King's College London, where he worked. He was 87. The cause of death was not stat
 John A. Kelley, who ran 61 Boston Marathons, won two and became almost as celebrated as the race itself, died on Wednesday in South Yarmouth, Mass. He was 97. A stepson, David DeLong, said Kelley died in a nursing home, less than three hours after he arrived from his home in nearby 
 Gordon Bendersky, a pediatric cardiologist turned medical historian who studied sports injuries and medical plants in ancient Greece and fetal sculptures of the Olmec civilization, died Thursday in Abington, Pa. He was 75 and lived in Elkins Park, Pa. The cause was complications fro
 Richard Ellison, an Emmy-winning documentary producer whose best-known work, a 13-part history of the Vietnam War, inspired both critical praise and an impassioned televised rebuttal after it was broadcast on public television in 1983, died on Friday at his home in Kingston, Mass. He was 80
 Yogi Bhajan, a former customs inspector at the Delhi airport who became both the spiritual leader to Americans following his version of the ancient Sikh religion and a highly successful entrepreneur, died Wednesday at his home in Española, N.M. He was 75. The cause was complication
 Dr. Jeffrey S. Schechner, an associate professor of dermatology at Yale who led research into how to produce a better artificial skin for grafting, died on Sept. 7 in New Haven. He was 39. The cause was a stroke, colleagues at the medical school said. Dr. Schechner, who was 
 Edward McAteer, who as the founder of the Religious Roundtable, a conservative Christian group, played a major role in establishing the Christian right's influence in American politics, died Wednesday after collapsing at his home in Memphis. He was 78. Mr. McAteer had been undergoin
 Jacques Derrida, the Algerian-born, French intellectual who became one of the most celebrated and notoriously difficult philosophers of the late 20th century, died Friday at a Paris hospital, the French president's office announced. He was 74. The cause of death was pancreatic cance
 James Chace, one of the country's leading foreign policy thinkers and historians, whose work altered mainstream thought about American global power, died Friday night of a heart attack in Paris. He was 72. His death was reported by his companion of many years, Joan Bingham, executiv
 Townsend Hoopes, an author and onetime Washington insider who wrote of how President Lyndon Baines Johnson tried to de-escalate the Vietnam War in 1968, died on Sept. 20 in Baja California, Mexico. He was 82 and lived in Chestertown, Md. The cause was complications of melanoma, his 
 Charles R. Wood, who dreamed up an amusement park based on Mother Goose rhymes, then invested his life savings and hammered nails himself to create it, died on Sept. 30 at home in Glens Falls, N.Y. He was 90, having lived 10 years after doctors ordered him to stop riding his own roller coas
 James Chace, one of the country's leading foreign policy thinkers and historians, whose work altered mainstream thought about American global power, died Friday night of a heart attack in Paris. He was 72. His death was reported by his companion of many years, Joan Bingham, executiv
 Richard L. Berger, a film and television executive who created the Touchstone label for Walt Disney Pictures, died on Sept. 29 in Los Angeles. He was 64 and lived in Beverly Hills, Calif. The cause was complications of lung cancer, the public relations firm Guttman Associates announ
 William A. Watkins, a leading researcher of marine mammal acoustics who created a database of thousands of underwater calls from more than 70 species, died on Sept. 24 at his home in East Falmouth, Mass. He was 78. The cause was multiple myeloma, said his wife, Joan. Dr. Wat
 Christopher Reeve, the cinematic Superman who became a real-life inspiration through his painstaking efforts to overcome total paralysis, while speaking out for stem-cell research and other potential treatments, died on Sunday at Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount Kisco, N.Y. He was 52 
 Ken Caminiti, the National League's most valuable player in 1996 but an admitted steroid user in his playing days and a cocaine user in recent years, died Sunday in the Bronx. He was 41. Caminiti's agent and lawyer, Rick Licht, said in an interview that Caminiti collapsed while visi
 Maxime A. Faget, a pioneering aerospace engineer whose design of the original Mercury space capsule ushered the United States into the age of manned space flight, died on Saturday at his home in Houston. He was 83. NASA announced the death, which came just five days after that of Go
 Johnny Sturm, a former Yankees first baseman who managed Mickey Mantle in the minor leagues the year before Mantle started his Hall of Fame baseball career, died Friday at his home in St. Louis. He was 88. The cause was congestive heart failure, his son, John, said. When Lou
 Joseph T. Zoline, who looked at a withering mining village nestled in the Colorado Rockies and imagined, then built, the elite ski resort of Telluride, died on Sept. 23 at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 92. His daughter Pamela Zoline said he died after a long illness.     
 Nicholas Duke Biddle, a scion of two prominent American families who helped refugees from Cuba and other Caribbean countries, died on Monday in Madrid. He was 83. The cause was a heart attack, his cousin Tony Duke said. Mr. Biddle was originally named Anthony Joseph Drexel B
 John Tebbel, a journalist, educator and media historian whose major work chronicled the history of American book publishing from the colonial era to the late 20th century, died on Sunday at his home in Durham, N.C. He was 91. Mr. Tebbel died in his sleep, his wife, Kathryn, said.   
 Peter L. Picknelly, a longtime transit executive and real estate developer who built Peter Pan Bus Lines into the country's largest privately owned bus company, died on Oct. 4 while vacationing in Portugal. He was 73 and a resident of Springfield, Mass. The cause was a stroke, his f
 Robert Lissauer, a music historian whose vast encyclopedia of American popular song, considered the definitive reference book in the field, settled innumerable arguments and started innumerable others, died yesterday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx, his wife, Melinda, announced. He was 87 
 Bruce Palmer, who played bass guitar for Buffalo Springfield, the influential though short-lived folk-rock band that exemplified what was called the West Coast sound in the 1960's, died on Oct. 1 in Belleville, Ontario. He was 58. The cause was a heart attack, said Liese Rugo, a mus
 Pierre Salinger, the spokesman for the Kennedy White House who later became a European correspondent for ABC News, died yesterday at a hospital near his home in Le Thor, France. He was 79. Mr. Salinger had been in declining health for four years and died of heart failure, said a lon
 Pierre Salinger, the debonair, half-French investigative reporter who became famous as John F. Kennedy's White House press secretary at the height of the cold war and went on to work as a prize-winning television correspondent for ABC News in Europe, died Saturday at a hospital near his hom
 Douglas Day, a biographer and critic who won a National Book Award in 1974 for his life of the English novelist Malcolm Lowry, died on Oct. 10 in his home in Charlottesville, Va. He was 72. Dr. Day, who had a debilitating stroke in February, committed suicide, his daughter, Emily Da
 Ray Boone, an American League All-Star infielder who was the patriarch of the first three-generation family of major leaguers, died Sunday at a hospital in San Diego. Boone, who lived in Rancho Santa Fe, Calif., was 81. The cause was complications of intestinal surgery he had in May
 Dr. Thomas M. Donahue, a pioneering space scientist whose career went from studying Earth's stratosphere with early rockets to probing the atmosphere of Jupiter with spacecraft, died on Saturday in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 83. The cause was complications after heart surgery he had a 
 Dr. Lawrence Z. Freedman, a pioneering forensic psychiatrist whose research and writings delved into the causes of violence, particularly assassinations, terrorism and mass murder, died on Oct. 6 at his home in Chicago. He was 85. The cause was a stroke, his son Thomas said.        
 Richard M. Schmidt Jr., a communications lawyer who was general counsel to the American Society of Newspaper Editors and was involved in several significant First Amendment cases, died on Sunday at his home in Washington. He was 80. The cause was congestive heart failure, his son Gr
 Paul H. Nitze, an expert on military power and strategic arms whose roles as negotiator, diplomat and Washington insider spanned the era from Franklin D. Roosevelt to Ronald Reagan and helped shape America's cold war relationship with the Soviet Union, died Tuesday night at his home in Wash
 Anthony Hecht, an accomplished formalist poet whose early work of courtliness and urbanity gave way to searing chronicles of the 20th-century's terrors, died on Wednesday at his home in Washington. He was 81. The cause was lymphoma, said his wife, Helen. His first book, ''A Summonin
 Chuck Hiller, the first National League player to hit a grand slam in the World Series and a longtime member of the Mets organization, died Wednesday at his home in St. Pete Beach, Fla. He was 70. The cause was leukemia, said his son-in-law, David Maw. A National League infi
 Dr. Steven Z. Miller, director of pediatric emergency medicine at the Morgan Stanley Children's Hospital of New York-Presbyterian Hospital/Columbia University Medical Center, and a well-known educator in the movement promoting humanism in medicine, died Oct. 19 in the plane crash near Kirks
 John McNamara, who walked every street in the Bronx and recorded the often idiosyncratic history of each (yes, even Yznaga Place), died on Oct. 15 in the Bronx. He was 92. The cause was prostate cancer, his son, John, said. Mr. McNamara was known for wearing his many hats, f
 Much of the Washington establishment paid its final respects on Saturday at the National Cathedral to Paul H. Nitze, the arms control negotiator and diplomat, who was remembered by his son Peter for his understanding that ''the best of human endeavors represent the art of the possible, not 
 Alexander Kouzmanoff, an architect and professor who designed the award-winning underground annex of the Avery Architectural and Fine Arts Library at Columbia University, died on Oct. 9 at his home in Rye Brook, N.Y. He was 89. The cause was complications of a stroke, his son Jan sa
 Cardinal James A. Hickey, the former archbishop of Washington who led the Roman Catholic Church in the nation's capital for 20 years until his retirement in 2000, died early yesterday at a nursing home in the District of Columbia. He was 84. He died at the Jeanne Jugan Residence, a 
 Frederick William Hill, an educator and school business official in charge of the New York school system's finances during its tumultuous reorganization in the 1960's, died on Oct. 15 at his home in Owensboro, Ky. He was 92. The cause was bladder and prostate cancer, his family said
 Michael Grant, a classical scholar who did groundbreaking research on the coinage of Rome, then wrote lucid, learned histories of the ancient world for the general reader, died on Oct. 4 in London. He was 89. His son, Antony, said Dr. Grant died in a London hospital. He returned to 
 Cardinal James A. Hickey, the former archbishop of Washington who led the Roman Catholic Church in the nation's capital for 20 years until his retirement in 2000, died early Sunday in the District of Columbia. He was 84. He died at the Jeanne Jugan Residence, a nursing home operated
 Charles Seaver, an outstanding amateur golfer in the 1930's, died yesterday at a hospice in Pebble Beach, Calif. He was 93 and lived in Pebble Beach. His death was announced by his son, Tom Seaver, the Baseball Hall of Fame pitcher and Mets broadcaster. In the 1932 Walker Cu
 Robert Merrill, whose smooth, powerful baritone voice and vigorous interpretations helped make him a favorite singer at the Metropolitan Opera for 30 years, died at his home on Saturday. He was 87. He died, apparently of natural causes, while watching the first game of the World Ser
 Samuel L. Gravely Jr., the Navy's first black admiral and the first African-American to serve as a fleet commander, died on Friday at the National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, Md. He was 82 and lived in Haymarket, Va. The cause was complications from a stroke, said his son, Dav
 Greg Shaw, a rock-music enthusiast, journalist and record label proprietor who was a major force in the spread of underground music and fanzine publishing since the mid-1960's, died on Oct. 19 in Los Angeles, where he lived. He was 55. The cause was heart failure, said Suzy Shaw, hi
 John Peel, a BBC radio disc jockey who was a champion of innovative and independent music for nearly four decades, died on Monday night in Cuzco, Peru. He was 65 and was a longtime resident of Great Finborough, England. The BBC reported that he had a heart attack while on vacation w
 Joseph Dorsey Jr., an African-American prizefighter whose suit challenging a Louisiana ban on integrated sports was upheld by the United States Supreme Court in 1959, died Oct. 20 in New Orleans, where he lived. He was 69. The cause was cancer, his wife, Evelyn, said. When M
 Bobby Avila, the American League batting champion in 1954 when he played for the pennant-winning Cleveland Indians, and one of the first prominent Latin major leaguers in the decade after World War II, died Tuesday in Veracruz, Mexico. He was 78. The cause was complications of diabe
 George Silk, a longtime Life magazine photographer known for images that captured both the intimate drama of war and the raw dynamism of sport, died on Saturday in Norwalk, Conn. He was 87 and lived in Westport, Conn. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said. 
 Joe Eula, an illustrator who caught the riotous curves of fashion from Dior's New Look in the 1940's until the end of Saint Laurent's reign, died yesterday in Kingston, N.Y. He was 79 and lived in Manhattan and in Hurley, N.Y. He died after going into a hospital recently because of 
 Lester Lanin, who, from the White House to Buckingham Palace, from the Plaza Hotel to the grand ballrooms of the Vanderbilts and the Rockefellers, epitomized a rarefied and perhaps fading species -- the society bandleader -- died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 97. His
 Billy Jim Layton, an innovative American composer of the 1950's and 60's who was well known in his prime but abruptly stopped composing and concentrated on academic pursuits, died on Saturday in Cambridge, Mass. He was 79. The cause was complications of pneumonia, said his daughter,
 Charles H. Stein, whose company built Six Flags Great Adventure in Jackson, N.J., and operated well-known restaurants like Tavern on the Green and Maxwell's Plum in Manhattan, died on Oct. 10 in Miami Beach. He was 76 and lived in Miami Beach. The cause was respiratory failure, said
 Edward T. Cone, a musicologist, composer and pianist associated with Princeton University for many years, died on Saturday in Princeton, N.J. He was 87 and lived in Princeton. The cause was complications of open-heart surgery he had last month, his companion, George Pitcher, said.  
 John W. Finney, a senior correspondent and editor in the Washington bureau of The New York Times for 30 years who wrote extensively about nuclear proliferation, military policy and the Vietnam War, died Friday at the Washington Home Hospice. He was 80. The cause was prostate cancer,
 Vaughn Meader, a stand-up comic who attained instant celebrity in 1962 with his record ''The First Family,'' a flawless spoof of President John F. Kennedy and his entourage, but who became, as he ruefully called himself, ''a living reminder of tragedy'' one year later, died yesterday at his
 Gene R. Hawes, who wrote more than 30 widely used books to help people manage their health, education and careers, died on Sept. 4 at his home in Chappaqua, N.Y. He was 82. The cause was heart failure, said his son, Mark, in announcing the death last week. A former editor for the Co
 James A. Rousmaniere, a socially prominent yachtsman and professional fund-raiser, died Oct. 22 in Southbury, Conn. He was 86. A longtime resident of Oyster Bay, N.Y., he lived in Southbury. Mr. Rousmaniere (pronounced roo-man-EER) died six days after having a stroke, his family sai
 Neil A. Campbell, a botanist and an educator who wrote college biology textbooks that sold in the millions and became popular in high school honors courses, died on Oct. 21 at a hospital in Redlands, Calif. He was 58. The cause was heart failure, said his daughter, Allison Campbell 
