Carmine S. Bellino, a Congressional investigator for 30 years who was credited with a major role in bringing about the downfall of the teamster leaders James R. Hoffa and Dave Beck, died of prostate cancer on Tuesday at his home in Coconut Creek, Fla., where he had lived in retirement
Dr. Joseph Dalven, a doctor who practiced medicine for more than 60 years, died on Tuesday at Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn after a short illness. He was 90 years old and lived in Brooklyn. Dr. Joseph Dalven, a doctor who practiced medicine for more than 60 years, died
Frederick P. Peters, retired executive vice president of the Reinhold Publishing Company in Manhattan and a former professor of management, died of a ruptured aorta on Sunday at the Southwest Florida Regional Medical Center in Fort Myers. He was 81 years old and lived in Naples, Fla.,
Irving Price, an accountant, a builder and a real-estate broker in upstate New York for more than 35 years, died of a heart attack on Monday at John F. Kennedy Hospital in Lantana, Fla. He was 64 years old and lived in Hudson, N.Y. Irving Price, an accountant, a builder and a 
Joel M. Tropper, a stage manager, died of AIDS on Friday in Orlando, Fla. He was 46 years old. Mr. Tropper was a member of Actors' Equity and a founding member and former chairman of the Stage Managers' Association. He managed many Broadway shows, including ''Woman of the Year,'' ''Ai
Nahum N. Glatzer, a scholar, an editor and the author of many works on literature and Jewish philosophy, died on Tuesday after several days in a coma in Tucson, Ariz., where he was spending the winter. He was 86 years old and lived in Watertown, Mass. Nahum N. Glatzer, a schol
Alfred L. Ferguson Jr., an investment executive with the Wall Street securities firm of Dominick & Dominick before his retirement in 1965, died of congestive heart failure on Wednesday at his home in Atlantic Highlands, N.J. He was 85 years old. Mr. Ferguson, who was born in Manhattan
Ben Hill Griffin Jr., a major figure in the Florida citrus industry, died yesterday at his home in Avon Park, Fla., after a long illness. He was 79 years old. Ben Hill Griffin Jr., a major figure in the Florida citrus industry, died yesterday at his home in Avon Park, Fla., af
Greville Wynne, who spied on the Soviet Union for Britain in the cold war and who spent 18 months in a Moscow prison after being caught, died of throat cancer on Wednesday, hospital officials said today. He was 71 years old. Greville Wynne, who spied on the Soviet Union for Br
Jack Conroy, a Depression-era novelist whose writings drew upon his childhood in a mining camp, died on Wednesday. He was 91 years old. Jack Conroy, a Depression-era novelist whose writings drew upon his childhood in a mining camp, died on Wednesday. He was 91 years old.      
Mel Hosansky, editor in chief of Successful Meetings magazine, died of liver cancer on Wednesday at the Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan. He was 64 years old and lived in Jamaica, Queens. Mel Hosansky, editor in chief of Successful Meetings magazine, died of liver cancer on Wednes
Norman Blackburn, a writer and producer who worked in film, radio and television and whose movie credits included the Marx Brothers' ''Day at the Races'' and the ''Our Gang'' comedies, died on Feb. 21 after complications from hip surgery. He was 86 years old. Norman Blackburn,
Robert J. Wood, former chairman and chief executive of the public relations agency of Carl Byoir & Associates, died of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, also known as Lou Gehrig's disease, on Wednesday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 71 years old. Robert J. Wood, former cha
Alphonse F. D'Andrea, a retired social worker and an aide to former Congressman Mario Biaggi, died on Monday at a Connecticut nursing home. He was 75 years old and lived in Bayside, Queens. Alphonse F. D'Andrea, a retired social worker and an aide to former Congressman Mario B
Dr. Charles Austin Doan, the retired dean of Ohio State University Medical School and a noted hematologist, died of arteriosclerosis on Feb. 13 at a nursing home in West Bloomfield, Mich. He was 93 years old and until last month had lived in Columbus, Ohio. Dr. Charles Austin 
Dr. Joseph Dalven, who practiced medicine for more than 60 years and who directed a home for the aged for 35 years, died on Tuesday at the Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn after a short illness. He was 90 years old and lived in Brooklyn. Dr. Joseph Dalven, who practiced m
Frederick Landis, a former judge of the United States Customs Court, now the Court of International Trade, and former Chief Judge of the Indiana Supreme Court, died of intestinal cancer on Thursday at a nursing home in Carmel, Ind. He was 78 years old and lived in Indianapolis and Sca
Levi William Swanson, who was publisher and editor of After Dark, a Manhattan entertainment magazine that ceased publication in 1983, died of AIDS on Monday at Pioneer House Hospice in Hollywood. He was 53 years old and lived in Hollywood and Norton Mills, Vt. Levi William Swa
Louis Landerson, the general counsel for the Rodgers & Hammerstein Organization, died on Wednesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 40 years old. Louis Landerson, the general counsel for the Rodgers & Hammerstein Organization, died on Wednesday at Lenox Hill Hospita
Robert L. McDonald, an award-winning film maker who became the chief of the Perry Ellis design house after its founder's death, died of AIDS last night at his home in Manhattan. He was 45 years old. Robert L. McDonald, an award-winning film maker who became the chief of the Pe
Scott Jarvis, an actor and singer, died of AIDS on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 48 years old. Scott Jarvis, an actor and singer, died of AIDS on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 48 years old. As a member of the original cast of the musical ''1776,'' M
Frank X. Graves Jr., the longtime Mayor of Paterson, N.J., and also a State Senator for many years, died after a heart attack yesterday morning at his home in the Lakeview section of the city. He was 66 years old. Frank X. Graves Jr., the longtime Mayor of Paterson, N.J., and 
Gerard Blitz, founder of the Club Mediterranee empire of vacation villages billed as an ''antidote to civilization,'' has died, company officials said today. He was 78 years old. Gerard Blitz, founder of the Club Mediterranee empire of vacation villages billed as an ''antidote
Samuel Perlman, a businessman and philanthropist, died of cardiac arrest on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82 years old. Mr. Perlman, a Brooklyn native, was a graduate of St. John's University and the New York Law School. He served in the Army in World War II and with the Am
State Senator Abraham Bernstein, a Bronx Democrat who served almost 30 years in the Legislature and whose district stretched from Riverdale to Co-op City, died of a heart attack yesterday at the Albert Einstein Medical Center in the Bronx. He was 71 years old. State Senator Ab
Charles Harman Foster, a former vice chancellor of the State University of New York, died of leukemia on Sunday at St. Peter's Hospice in Albany. He was 77 years old and lived in Delmar, N.Y. Charles Harman Foster, a former vice chancellor of the State University of New York, 
Dr. Harold G. Scheie, a pioneer in several ophthalmological techniques who founded the Scheie Eye Institute of Philadelphia, died in his sleep yesterday at his home in Philadelphia. He was 80 years old and had long been ill with cancer. Dr. Harold G. Scheie, a pioneer in sever
Leslie Winship 2d, a former vice president of Dartmouth College, died of a heart attack Friday at the Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center in Hanover, N.H. He was 68 years old and lived in Hanover. Leslie Winship 2d, a former vice president of Dartmouth College, died of a heart 
Dr. Marver H. Bernstein, a retired president of Brandeis University and a Jewish lay leader, and his wife, Sheva, were killed last Thursday in a fire at the Heliopolis Sheraton Hotel outside Cairo. He was 71 years old, and she was 69. They lived in Washington and Jerusalem. Dr
Morris Margolin, retired founding partner of Margolin, Winer & Evans, an accounting firm in Garden City, L.I., died of an aneurysm on Sunday at J.F.K. Hospital in Atlantis, Fla. He was 81 years old and lived in Palm Beach. Morris Margolin, retired founding partner of Margolin,
Thomas J. Livornese, a lawyer and jazz pianist, died of cancer on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 65 years old. Thomas J. Livornese, a lawyer and jazz pianist, died of cancer on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 65 years old. A 1952 graduate of Brooklyn L
Brother Urban Gonnoud, a member of the Order of St. Francis and a former teacher and president of St. Francis College in Brooklyn, died of heart failure on Saturday at the college faculty residence where he lived. He was 70 years old. Brother Urban Gonnoud, a member of the Ord
Alexander T. Colt, an advertising and publishing executive for more than 35 years, died of leukemia Friday at Queen of the Valley Hospital in Napa, Calif. He was 75 years old and lived in Napa. Alexander T. Colt, an advertising and publishing executive for more than 35 years, 
Dr. Edgar Raymond Lorch, an author and a leader in the development of modern mathematics theory, died on Monday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Medical Center in Manhattan after a long illness. He was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Edgar Raymond Lorch, an author and a leader
Gary Merrill, a ruggedly handsome actor who appeared in more than 40 films as well as many plays and television shows, died of lung cancer on Monday at his home in Falmouth, Me. He was 74 years old. Gary Merrill, a ruggedly handsome actor who appeared in more than 40 films as 
Gene L. Harmon, retired vice president of corporate public affairs for Sears, Roebuck and Company, died of a heart attack Saturday while traveling from Palm Springs, Calif., to his home in Albuquerque, N.M. He was 62 years old. Gene L. Harmon, retired vice president of corpora
Gerald S. Jeremias, founder and chief executive of the Empire Planning Corporation, an independent mutual funds sales organization, died Sunday at New York Hospital after a heart attack. He was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan. Gerald S. Jeremias, founder and chief executiv
Marion Weatherford, an agricultural leader, died Feb. 27 at a hotel in The Dalles, Ore., after a long illness. He was 83 years old and lived in Pendleton. Marion Weatherford, an agricultural leader, died Feb. 27 at a hotel in The Dalles, Ore., after a long illness. He was 83 y
Norman E. Cash, a former president of the Television Bureau of Advertising, died of a heart attack on Saturday at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 71 years old. Norman E. Cash, a former president of the Television Bureau of Advertising, died of a heart attack on Saturday at
Patrick T. Finnegan, a retired executive vice president of the James Gordon Bennett Foundation and a former newspaper industry executive, died of a pulmonary embolism on Thursday at a nursing home in Martin, Tenn. He was 74 years old and until recently had lived in Carlisle, Pa.      
Prof. Peter H. von Blanckenhagen, a scholar of Greek and Roman art who was the Robert Lehman Professor Emeritus of Fine Arts at the New York University Institute of Fine Arts, died of complications from a respiratory ailment yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 80 years old and li
Rossell Hope Robbins, retired International Professor of English at the State University of New York at Albany, died of a heart attack on Monday at his home in Saugerties, N.Y. He was 77 years old. Rossell Hope Robbins, retired International Professor of English at the State U
Vincent J. Commisa, Chief Judge of the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of New Jersey, died of a heart attack on Sunday at his home in West Orange, N.J. He was 68 years old. Vincent J. Commisa, Chief Judge of the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District o
Vito Marzullo, a former Alderman who ran his West Side ward virtually unchallenged for more than 30 years, died of respiratory illness Monday at Rush-Presbyterian-St. Luke's Medical Center. He was 92 years old and had been hospitalized for more than a month. Vito Marzullo, a f
Gypsy Joe Harris, a welterweight contender whose boxing career ended with the discovery that he had concealed blindness in one eye, died on Tuesday. He was 44 years old.  Mr. Harris, who suffered four heart attacks in the last two years, died at Temple University Hospital, where he ha
Joe Sewell, the sharp-eyed batter who struck out only 114 times in a 14-year major league career, died on Tuesday at his home in Mobile, Ala. Mr. Sewell, who was elected to the Hall of Fame by the veterans committee in 1977, was 91 years old and lived with his son, Dr. James W. Sewell
Luis Carlos Prestes, who led Brazil's Communist opposition for half a century, died today of cancer, doctors said. He was 92 years old. Mr. Prestes had suffered from leukemia, said Dr. Peylor Meira, administrator of the Beneficiencia Portuguesa Hospital, where Mr. Prestes died.       
Peter Glenn, a publisher of talent and modeling guides and directories, died of complications from AIDS on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 69 years old. Peter Glenn, a publisher of talent and modeling guides and directories, died of complications from AIDS on Monday at
His Beatitude Archbishop Shnork Kaloustian, the Patriarch of the Armenians in Turkey, died Tuesday at Nork Hospital in Yerevan, Soviet Armenia. He was 76 years old and lived in Istanbul. His Beatitude Archbishop Shnork Kaloustian, the Patriarch of the Armenians in Turkey, died
Vine Deloria Sr., a former Episcopal archdeacon of South Dakota and a missionary among Sioux Indians, died on Feb. 26 at a nursing home in Tucson, Ariz. He was 88 years old. Vine Deloria Sr., a former Episcopal archdeacon of South Dakota and a missionary among Sioux Indians, d
Virgil M. Rogers, a former dean of education at Syracuse University who had served as a local school superintendent in three states died Saturday at the Birchwood Care Center in Syracuse, N.Y. He was 92 years old and lived in Syracuse. Virgil M. Rogers, a former dean of educat
William Appleman Williams, a historian known for his sharp critiques of American foreign policy, died of cancer Monday at Newport (Ore.) Community Hospital. He was 68 years old and lived on the Oregon coast at Waldport. William Appleman Williams, a historian known for his shar
David Teitelbaum, a producer of news and documentary programs for NBC, died of cancer of the prostate on Tuesday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 69 years old and lived in Englewood Cliffs, N.J. David Teitelbaum, a producer of news and documentary programs fo
Dr. Otto Aufranc, an orthopedist who was a pioneer in the surgical replacement of damaged hips, died at Glover Memorial Hospital here on Monday after a long illness. He was 80 years old and lived in Wellesley Hills, Mass. Dr. Otto Aufranc, an orthopedist who was a pioneer in t
Earl T. Wagner, a lawyer and former member of the House of Representatives, died of cancer on Tuesday at a Cincinnati hospital. He was 81 years old. Earl T. Wagner, a lawyer and former member of the House of Representatives, died of cancer on Tuesday at a Cincinnati hospital. 
Dr. Ernest E. McMahon, an author, educator and a former dean at Rutgers University, died of cancer last Thursday at the William Hill Health Center in Easton, Md. He was 79 years old and lived in St. Michaels, Md. Dr. Ernest E. McMahon, an author, educator and a former dean at 
Gordon K. Smith, a retired insurance executive, died of leukemia on Wednesday at his home in Manhasset, L.I. He was 88 years old. Gordon K. Smith, a retired insurance executive, died of leukemia on Wednesday at his home in Manhasset, L.I. He was 88 years old. Mr. Smith
Gypsy Joe Harris, a welterweight contender whose boxing career ended with the discovery that he had concealed blindness in one eye, died on Tuesday. He was 44 years old.  Mr. Harris, who suffered four heart attacks in the last two years, died at Temple University Hospital, where he ha
Haim S. Eliachar, a developer who was a founder and the first president of the American Sephardi Foundation, died of lung cancer on Tuesday at his home in Boston. He was 61 years old and also had a home in Edgartown on Martha's Vineyard. Haim S. Eliachar, a developer who was a
Jackson Martindell, a financier, management consultant and onetime publisher of ''Who's Who in America,'' died of cancer Wednesday at his home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 89 years old. Jackson Martindell, a financier, management consultant and onetime publisher of ''Who's 
Jay Lovestone, who briefly headed the Communist Party in the United States in the 1920's before becoming a staunch anti-Communist, died in his sleep Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 91 years old. Jay Lovestone, who briefly headed the Communist Party in the United Sta
John G. Harlan Jr., a retired executive vice president and director of the Engelhard Minerals and Chemical Corporation of Edison, N.J., and former Federal official, died of congestive heart failure on Monday at his home in Gloucester, Va. He was 71 years old. John G. Harlan Jr
John C. Lobb, retired chairman of Northern Telecom Ltd., the Toronto-based communications concern, died of cancer on Wednesday at his home in Ligonier, Pa. He was 76 years old. John C. Lobb, retired chairman of Northern Telecom Ltd., the Toronto-based communications concern, d
Joseph Melvin Lyle, a vice admiral in the Navy Supply Corps who was director of the Defense Supply Agency before he retired in 1967, died of cancer Tuesday at a nursing home. He was 77 years old, Mr. Lyle graduated from the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis in 1935 and was an a
Luis Carlos Prestes, who led Brazil's Communist opposition for half a century, died on Wednesday of cancer, doctors said. He was 92 years old. Luis Carlos Prestes, who led Brazil's Communist opposition for half a century, died on Wednesday of cancer, doctors said. He was 92 ye
Dr. Paul A. Paroski Jr., medical director for the department of ambulatory care at the Woodhull Medical and Mental Health Center in Brooklyn, died of complications from AIDS on Saturday at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 37 years old and lived in Brookly
Philip Gross, a retired construction superintendent, died yesterday at the Universal Medical Center in Plantation, Fla. He was 86 years old and had homes in Bayside, Queens, and Pembroke Pines, Fla. Philip Gross, a retired construction superintendent, died yesterday at the Uni
Dr. Robert J. Flemma, a surgeon who led research into an artificial heart, died of heart disease on Wednesday at St. Luke's Medical Center. He was 56 years old and lived in River Hills, a Milwaukee suburb. Dr. Robert J. Flemma, a surgeon who led research into an artificial hea
Saul Israel, a retired adjunct assistant professor of education at Fordham University and a former New York City high school teacher and principal, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in North Miami Beach, Fla. He was 79 years old. Saul Israel, a retired adjunct assistant profes
Bruce B. Benson, professor of physics at Amherst College, died of respiratory failure on Wednesday at Cooley Dickenson Hospital in Northampton, Mass. He was 68 years old and lived in Amherst, Mass. Bruce B. Benson, professor of physics at Amherst College, died of respiratory f
Carl Bailey, a principal dancer and a teacher with the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, died on Tuesday at Mount Carmel Mercy Hospital in Detroit. He was 35 years old. Carl Bailey, a principal dancer and a teacher with the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, died on Tuesday
Elmer T. Klassen, a former United States Postmaster General who rose from messenger to president of the American Can Corporation, died of congestive heart failure on Tuesday at a nursing home in Palm Harbor, Fla. He was 81 years old and lived in Palm Harbor. Elmer T. Klassen, 
Fred Tan, a film maker and critic, died on Wednesday in Veterans Hospital in Taipei, Taiwan. He was 35 years old. Fred Tan, a film maker and critic, died on Wednesday in Veterans Hospital in Taipei, Taiwan. He was 35 years old. Ron Norman, Mr. Tan's partner in a Los An
Frederick Evoy Kneip, a retired executive in the paper products industry, died of cancer on Tuesday at the Lakeland (Fla.) Regional Medical Center. He was 75 years old and lived in Lakeland. Frederick Evoy Kneip, a retired executive in the paper products industry, died of canc
Jay Feigus, a leading contract bridge player, died of heart failure on Thursday at his home in Middletown N.J. He was 97 years old. Jay Feigus, a leading contract bridge player, died of heart failure on Thursday at his home in Middletown N.J. He was 97 years old. Mr. F
John Ben Shepperd, a former Texas Attorney General who was active in state politics for decades, died of cancer Thursday at his home in Gladewater. He was 74 years old and also had a home in Odessa, Tex. John Ben Shepperd, a former Texas Attorney General who was active in stat
Mordecai (Max) Gorelik, a theatrical designer who also wrote, produced and directed plays, died of cancer Wednesday at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 90 years old. Mordecai (Max) Gorelik, a theatrical designer who also wrote, produced and directed plays, died of cancer Wedn
Peter-Adolf Thiessen, the East German scientist who was taken from the ruins of Nazi Germany to play a major role in developing the Soviet atom bomb, has died at the age of 90, the official A.D.N. press agency said today. The agency said he died on Monday. Peter-Adolf Thiessen
Ron Wolin, an antiwar advocate who brought a class-action lawsuit in the 1960's that allowed the distribution of political and religious leaflets in bus terminals and other transportation centers and that led to the right to solicit contributions in such centers, died on Sunday at Cab
Seymour B. Wyler, owner of S. Wyler Inc., an East Side antiques store specializing in English silver and porcelain, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital after a long illness. He was 79 years old and lived in Manhattan and Palm Beach, Fla. Seymour B. Wyler, owner of S. Wyler I
Coleman Carter Walker, a former vice president of Bankers Trust Company, died on Friday at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 88 years old. Coleman Carter Walker, a former vice president of Bankers Trust Company, died on Friday at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 88 years 
Frederick Evoy Kneip, a retired executive in the paper products industry, died of cancer on Tuesday at the Lakeland (Fla.) Regional Medical Center. He was 75 years old and lived in Lakeland. Frederick Evoy Kneip, a retired executive in the paper products industry, died of canc
Robert L. Kaufman, former president of Mollie Parnis Inc. and a former president of the New York Fashion Council, died on Thursday of complications from lung cancer at his home in Manhattan. He was 63 years old. Robert L. Kaufman, former president of Mollie Parnis Inc. and a f
Tseng Kwong Chi, an artist and photographer who for the last 10 years documented the downtown art scene in Manhattan and particularly the works of the artist Keith Haring, died of AIDS early yesterday in his Manhattan apartment. Mr. Tseng was 39 years old. Tseng Kwong Chi, an 
Martial Singher, a French baritone who became a leading American operatic and concert artist and later a noted teacher, died of heart disease on Saturday at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 85 years old. Martial Singher, a French baritone who became a leading American 
Dr. Nicholas J. Pisacano, a physician who headed the American Board of Family Practice for 20 years, died on Sunday, apparently of a heart attack, at his home in Lexington, Ky. He was 65 years old. Dr. Nicholas J. Pisacano, a physician who headed the American Board of Family P
Dr. Ebenezer Thompson Breed, a physician on Long Island and surgeon for the Garden City police and fire departments for more than 35 years, died on Sunday at the health center at Vicar's Landing, a retirement community in Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla. He was 90 years old. Dr. Ebenez
Edward Grady Partin, a teamsters' union leader whose testimony helped convict James R. Hoffa, the former president of the union, died Sunday at a nursing home here. Mr. Partin, who was 66 years old, suffered from heart disease and diabetes. Edward Grady Partin, a teamsters' un
Gene Klein, the former owner of the San Diego Chargers of the National Football League and later a successful owner of thoroughbred race horses, died after apparently suffering a heart attack yesterday morning in California. He was 69 years old and had been in failing health for some 
George Costakis, a Russian-born Greek art collector who owned what is considered the largest private collection of Soviet avant-garde art, died of heart failure on Friday in Athens. He was 77 years old. George Costakis, a Russian-born Greek art collector who owned what is cons
H. George Decancq, who was in charge of construction of the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge, died of Parkinson's disease last Tuesday in a nursing home in Rochester. He was 88 years old and had lived in Lakehurst, N.J., until he entered the nursing home three years ago. H. George Dec
Ho Ryun Kang, a retired executive and former military officer and government administrator in South Korea, died of heart failure on Sunday at Our Lady of Lourdes Medical Center in Camden, N.J. He was 64 years old and lived in Lakewood, N.J. Ho Ryun Kang, a retired executive an
John W. Larsen, a former president and vice chairman of the Bowery Savings Bank, died on Sunday at his home in West New York, N.J., after suffering a stroke. He was 75 years old. John W. Larsen, a former president and vice chairman of the Bowery Savings Bank, died on Sunday at
Louis Maltese, a former bicycle racer who for decades promoted bike races around New York City and throughout the country, died after suffering cardiac failure on Saturday at his home in New Hyde Park, L.I. He was 83 years old. Louis Maltese, a former bicycle racer who for dec
Michael Stewart, who as British Foreign Secretary in the late 1960's became involved in efforts to end the Vietnam War, died on Saturday in London. He was 83 years old. Michael Stewart, who as British Foreign Secretary in the late 1960's became involved in efforts to end the V
Patrick R. Fiorilli, the former mayor who organized annual dandelion and eggplant festivals in Vineland, died at his home here on Sunday. He was 59 years old. Patrick R. Fiorilli, the former mayor who organized annual dandelion and eggplant festivals in Vineland, died at his h
Philippe Soupault, a writer and poet who was one of the founders of Surrealism, died on Sunday at his home in Paris. He was 92 years old. Philippe Soupault, a writer and poet who was one of the founders of Surrealism, died on Sunday at his home in Paris. He was 92 years old.  
Raymond C. McCron, former senior vice president and treasurer of the Equitable Life Assurance Society, died of lung cancer on Saturday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 69 years old. Raymond C. McCron, former senior vice president and treasurer of the Equitable Life Assura
Rabbi Stuart E. Rosenberg, a spiritual leader of Canada's Jews and an author, died of cancer yesterday in West Palm Beach, Fla., where he had a winter home. He was 67 years old and also lived in Toronto. Rabbi Stuart E. Rosenberg, a spiritual leader of Canada's Jews and an aut
William F. Raborn Jr., a retired Navy vice admiral who led the development of the Polaris nuclear missile in the 1950's and later headed the Central Intelligence Agency under President Lyndon B. Johnson, died of cardiac arrest on March 7 at his home in McLean, Va. He was 84 years old.
Friends, colleagues and dance fans filled the Joyce Theater yesterday afternoon to pay tribute to Ian (Ernie) Horvath, producing director for the Jose Limon Dance Foundation, founder of the Cleveland Ballet, and a former soloist with the Joffrey Ballet and American Ballet Theater. Mr.
Bruno Bettelheim, the psychoanalyst whose deep empathy for children led him to a lifelong effort to heal the emotional wounds of early life, died yesterday at a retirement home in Silver Spring, Md. He was 86 years old. Bruno Bettelheim, the psychoanalyst whose deep empathy fo
Michael J. Livesey, a cameraman whose work was seen and widely admired on network and public television programs, died of cancer of the liver and the pancreas on Sunday at Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 61 years old and lived in Ridgewood. Michael J. Livesey, a came
Paterson Bond, former managing partner of Orvis Brothers & Company, a former Wall Street brokerage house, died of cancer on Sunday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 80 years old and lived in Montclair, N.J. Paterson Bond, former managing partner of Orvis Brot
Walter Orr Roberts, the founder of the National Center for Atmospheric Research, who was one of the first scientists to warn that technology was changing the earth's climate, died of cancer on Monday in Boulder, Colo. He was 74 years old. Walter Orr Roberts, the founder of the
Abraham S. Halkin, who taught Jewish literature, history and culture for nearly half a century before retiring from the Jewish Theological Seminary faculty in 1977, died on Friday in Jerusalem, where he lived. He was 86 years old. Abraham S. Halkin, who taught Jewish literatur
Arthur Mead Irwin Jr., the owner of Mead Irwin Associates, publishers' representatives, died of lung cancer on Tuesday at his home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 72 years old. Arthur Mead Irwin Jr., the owner of Mead Irwin Associates, publishers' representatives, died of lung ca
Aubrey Wisberg, a screenplay writer and producer with credits in more than 40 films, including ''The Big Fix'' and ''The Man From Planet X,'' died of cancer yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 78 years old and lived in Manhattan. Aubrey Wisberg, a screenplay writer and pr
C. Leonard Miller, an official of the United Methodist Church, died of pancreatic cancer on Friday at the Kettering (Ohio) Memorial Hospital. He was 62 years old and lived in Dayton, Ohio. C. Leonard Miller, an official of the United Methodist Church, died of pancreatic cancer
Graham A. Martin, a career diplomat who was the last United States Ambassador to South Vietnam, died of a heart ailment on Tuesday at Forsythe Hospital in Winston-Salem, N.C. He was 77 years old and lived in Winston-Salem. Graham A. Martin, a career diplomat who was the last U
Jerome Schnur, an award-winning director and producer of television shows, died of melanoma on Monday at Mt. Sinai Hospital. He was 66 years old and lived in Manhattan. Jerome Schnur, an award-winning director and producer of television shows, died of melanoma on Monday at Mt.
John P. Carey, founder and president of the Carey Transportation Company until it was sold to Greyhound in 1961, died yesterday at the Mary Manning Walsh nursing home in Manhattan. He was 87 years old and had been a lifelong resident of Manhattan. John P. Carey, founder and pr
John Root, a Broadway set designer, died of heart failure on Tuesday at Doylestown (Pa.) Hospital. He was 85 years old. John Root, a Broadway set designer, died of heart failure on Tuesday at Doylestown (Pa.) Hospital. He was 85 years old. Mr. Root designed sets for 53
Louis Montelione, a retired New York City administrative law judge, died of colon cancer on Saturday at his home in Massapequa, L.I. He was 71 years old. Louis Montelione, a retired New York City administrative law judge, died of colon cancer on Saturday at his home in Massape
Peter I. Feinberg, a real-estate developer, died of cancer of the pancreas on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 79 years old. Peter I. Feinberg, a real-estate developer, died of cancer of the pancreas on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 79 years old. Mr.
Sidney Shenkman, chairman of Extebank, the United States subsidiary of Banco Exterior Group of Spain, died of a heart attack on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 69 years old. Sidney Shenkman, chairman of Extebank, the United States subsidiary of Banco Exterior Group of 
Zenon Rossides, a diplomat who represented Cyprus at the United Nations for two decades, died Tuesday at Doctors Hospital after a stroke. He was 95 years old and lived in Manhattan. Zenon Rossides, a diplomat who represented Cyprus at the United Nations for two decades, died T
Elmer L. Hann, an American shipbuilding executive who was instrumental in rebuilding Japan's industry after World War II, died of a heart attack on Tuesday at Kuakini Medical Center in Honolulu. He was 89 years old. Elmer L. Hann, an American shipbuilding executive who was ins
George Robert Lyon, an advertising executive, died of a heart attack on Wednesday at Presbyterian Hospital in San Francisco. He was 67 years old and lived in Scarsdale, N.Y. George Robert Lyon, an advertising executive, died of a heart attack on Wednesday at Presbyterian Hospi
George Sands Hastings, a retired vice president of the American Machine and Foundry Company, died of congestive heart failure on Wednesday at his home in Hamden, Conn. He was 90 years old. George Sands Hastings, a retired vice president of the American Machine and Foundry Comp
Harold R. Medina, a Federal judge for more than three decades, who achieved lasting fame for his handling of the trial of 11 Communist leaders in the 1940's, died in his sleep on Wednesday at Pascack Valley Hospital in Westwood, N.J., where he was admitted on Monday with a slight feve
Isao Sato, a Japanese-born actor who appeared in Broadway and Off Broadway productions, died on March 9 when his airplane collided with another near Miami. He was 40 years old. Isao Sato, a Japanese-born actor who appeared in Broadway and Off Broadway productions, died on Marc
Dr. John Adrian Onderdonk Jr., chief of cardiology at the Chestnut Hill Hospital in Philadelphia, died Tuesday, apparently of a heart attack, at his home in Radnor, Pa. He was 55 years old. Dr. John Adrian Onderdonk Jr., chief of cardiology at the Chestnut Hill Hospital in Phi
Oscar J. Youngberg, a retired certified public accountant, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Huntington, L.I. He was 94 years old and lived in Dix Hills, L.I. Oscar J. Youngberg, a retired certified public accountant, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Huntington, L.I. He w
Stuart MacClintock, a professor of philosophy who became an intelligence analyst for the Federal Government, died of cancer on Monday at his home in Silver Spring, Md. He was 70 years old. Stuart MacClintock, a professor of philosophy who became an intelligence analyst for the
Abraham Hershson, a retired manufacturing company executive and a philanthropist, died of a heart attack on Thursday at Good Samaritan Hospital in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 89 years old and lived in Jamaica Estates, Queens. Abraham Hershson, a retired manufacturing company execu
Horace Reynolds Moorhead, a retired treasurer of the former Gulf Oil Corporation who served as a financial officer of several other companies, died of heart disease on Monday at a retirement village in Bryn Mawr. He was 84 years old. Horace Reynolds Moorhead, a retired treasur
Isaiah Herbert Wilson, a retired food industry executive, died of a heart attack on March 8 at his home in Lexington, Mass. He was 80 years old and had lived in Great Neck, L.I., before moving to Rocky Hill, Conn., and more recently to Lexington. Isaiah Herbert Wilson, a retir
James Ortman, president of J. Ortman Inc., a Manhattan jewelry concern, died on Tuesday at New York University Medical Center, after a long illness. He was 78 years old and lived in Manhattan and Quogue, L.I. James Ortman, president of J. Ortman Inc., a Manhattan jewelry conce
Jim R. Lyons, a retired management consultant and philanthropist, died of a heart attack on Thursday while vacationing at Las Brisas Hotel in Acapulco, Mexico. He was 69 years old and lived in Palm Beach, Fla. Jim R. Lyons, a retired management consultant and philanthropist, d
Michael S. Weisberg, executive director of Multitasking Systems of New York and a former assistant business editor of The Daily News, died of AIDS on Tuesday at Long Island Jewish Hospital. He was 36 years old and lived in Forest Hills, Queens. Michael S. Weisberg, executive d
Tom Harmon, an all-America tailback at the University of Michigan who won the Heisman Trophy a half century ago, died of a heart attack late Thursday in Los Angeles soon after completing a round of golf. He was 70 years old. Tom Harmon, an all-America tailback at the Universit
William H. Lang, a retired steel company executive, died Wednesday at a nursing home in Palm Harbor, Fla. He was 78 years old and lived in Belleair, Fla. William H. Lang, a retired steel company executive, died Wednesday at a nursing home in Palm Harbor, Fla. He was 78 years o
William J. Simmer, public-affairs director of the Regional Plan Association, died on Wednesday at Beth Israel Hospital. He was 39 years old and lived in Manhattan. William J. Simmer, public-affairs director of the Regional Plan Association, died on Wednesday at Beth Israel Hos
Winslow Martin, a retired management consultant for Arthur D. Little Inc. in Cambridge, Mass., died of cancer on Tuesday at his home in Lincoln, Mass. He was 68 years old and also lived in Grantham, N.H. Winslow Martin, a retired management consultant for Arthur D. Little Inc.
Ernst Bacon, a prolific composer, pianist, conductor and teacher whose career spanned more than six decades, died of heart failure on Friday at his home in Orinda, Calif. He was 91 years old. Ernst Bacon, a prolific composer, pianist, conductor and teacher whose career spanned
Dr. James F. Gilliam, a professor at Princeton's School of Historical Studies for two decades before his retirement in 1985, died on Friday after a long illness, at the Merwick Nursing Home in Princeton, N.J. He was 75 years old and lived in Princeton. Dr. James F. Gilliam, a 
Max Nierman, a commodities trader and member of the Chicago Board of Trade for more than half a century, died Friday at the Desert Hospital in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 90 years old and lived in Palm Springs. Max Nierman, a commodities trader and member of the Chicago Board 
Dr. Pascal Gayle Batson 3d, a psychiatrist who was formerly on the staff of the Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan, died of AIDS last Monday at his home in Washington. He was 43 years old. Dr. Pascal Gayle Batson 3d, a psychiatrist who was formerly on the staff of the Bet
Walter T. Ridder, a retired news executive who helped create the Knight-Ridder, Inc., communications organization, died after a long illness Saturday in his home in McLean, Va. He was 72 years old. Walter T. Ridder, a retired news executive who helped create the Knight-Ridder,
William Rockefeller, a former president of the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and a former chairman of the Metropolitan Opera Association, died of lung cancer on Friday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 71 years old and had homes
Samuel H. Friedman, who was twice the Socialist Party's candidate for Vice President, died on Saturday after a bout with pneumonia. He was 93 years old and lived in Manhattan. Samuel H. Friedman, who was twice the Socialist Party's candidate for Vice President, died on Saturda
Sol Zausner, former chairman and president of the Zausner Foods Corporation, who introduced commercially produced creme fraiche to cooks in the United States, died of kidney failure yesterday at his home in Martinsville, N.J. He was 71 years old. Sol Zausner, former chairman a
Walter S. Mack, the former president of Pepsi-Cola who made it the nation's No. 2 cola drink in the early 1940's, died of heart disease yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 94 years old. Walter S. Mack, the former president of Pepsi-Cola who made it the nation's No. 2 co
Walter T. Ridder, a retired news executive who helped create Knight-Ridder Inc., died after a long illness Saturday at his home in McLean, Va. He was 72 years old. Walter T. Ridder, a retired news executive who helped create Knight-Ridder Inc., died after a long illness Saturd
William B. Platt Jr., a Southampton, L.I., Village Attorney for more than 20 years, of heart failure on Friday at Southampton Hospital. He was 84 years old. William B. Platt Jr., a Southampton, L.I., Village Attorney for more than 20 years, of heart failure on Friday at Southa
Eric Barton Meyers, a trial lawyer who was a senior partner in the Miami firm of Shutts & Bowen, died of colon cancer on Sunday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York. He was 47 years old and lived in Miami. Eric Barton Meyers, a trial lawyer who was a senior pa
Harry T. Morris, a magazine executive, died on Friday at St. Joseph's Medical Center in Stamford, Conn., after a long illness. He was 75 years old and lived in Darien, Conn. Harry T. Morris, a magazine executive, died on Friday at St. Joseph's Medical Center in Stamford, Conn.
John Denison Niles, a partner in the law firm of Debevoise & Plimpton in Manhattan , died of pancreatic failure, a complication of AIDS, yesterday at New York University Hospital. He was 55 years old and lived in Manhattan. John Denison Niles, a partner in the law firm of Debe
Morris Abrams, an industrialist and philanthropist, died on Sunday at his home in Neponsit, Queens. He was 99 years old. Morris Abrams, an industrialist and philanthropist, died on Sunday at his home in Neponsit, Queens. He was 99 years old. Mr. Abrams, who was born in
Moses Moskowitz, secretary general of the Consultative Council of Jewish Organizations, died of pneumonia yesterday at Parkway Hospital in Forest Hills, Queens. He was 80 years old and lived in Flushing. Moses Moskowitz, secretary general of the Consultative Council of Jewish 
Moses Shapiro, retired chairman and chief executive of the General Instrument Corporation, died of complications after surgery yesterday at Presbyterian Hospital. He was 79 years old and lived in Bellport, L.I. Moses Shapiro, retired chairman and chief executive of the General
Norman L. Spelke, a retired Connecticut banker, died of Alzheimer's disease on Thursday at the John Douglas French Center in Laguna Hills, Calif. He was 79 years old and lived in Laguna Hills. Norman L. Spelke, a retired Connecticut banker, died of Alzheimer's disease on Thurs
Ralph G. Gulley, founder and first dean of the School of Architecture at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, N.Y., died of heart failure on Sunday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 87 years old and lived in Manhattan. Ralph G. Gulley, found
Robin Harris, a comedian and actor who appeared in the movies ''Do the Right Thing,'' ''Harlem Nights'' and ''House Party,'' was found dead in a hotel room here on Sunday, officials said. He was 36 years old. Robin Harris, a comedian and actor who appeared in the movies ''Do t
Stephen A. McCarthy, a research librarian who was former director of university libraries at Cornell University, died of cancer Sunday at Anne Arundel Medical Center in Maryland. He was 81 years old and lived in Annapolis, Md. Stephen A. McCarthy, a research librarian who was 
Dr. Terence C. Langetieg, a vice president in the research department at Salomon Brothers Inc., died of cancer yesterday at Overlook Hospital in Summit, N.J. He was 41 years old and lived in New Providence, N.J. Dr. Terence C. Langetieg, a vice president in the research depart
Frederick R. Clark, a lawyer, banker and former chairman of the New York Power Authority, died of heart failure on Monday at Naples Community Hospital in Florida. He was 73 years old and lived in Loudonville, N.Y., and in Naples. Frederick R. Clark, a lawyer, banker and former
John R. Higgins, a former administrative assistant to J. Edgar Hoover, died on Saturday at Overlook Hospital in Summit, N.J.. He was 69 years old and lived in Roseland, N.J. John R. Higgins, a former administrative assistant to J. Edgar Hoover, died on Saturday at Overlook Hos
Richard Sears Humphrey, retired president and chief executive of the H. B. Humphrey Company, a former Boston-based advertising agency, died Sunday at his home in Water Mill, L.I. He was 91 years old. Richard Sears Humphrey, retired president and chief executive of the H. B. Hu
Robert Earl Bondy, a social worker who was a former executive director of the National Social Welfare Assembly, died of a stroke on Saturday at University Hospital in Tampa, Fla. He was 94 years old and lived in Tampa. Robert Earl Bondy, a social worker who was a former execut
Dr. Stephen S. Caiazza, a physician who had dedicated himself to the treatment of patients with AIDS, died of complications from the disease on last Wednesday at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 46 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Stephen S. Caiazza, a physicia
T. Roland Berner, chairman and president of the Curtiss-Wright Corporation for the last 30 years, died of a heart attack on Sunday while visiting relatives in Boston. He was 80 years old and lived in Fort Lee, N.J. T. Roland Berner, chairman and president of the Curtiss-Wright
Charles van Ravenswaay, a museum director and specialist in American frontier history, died of cancer on Tuesday in Cokesbury Village, a retirement community in Hockessin, Del. He was 78 years old. Charles van Ravenswaay, a museum director and specialist in American frontier h
Sylvan Keiser, a retired psychoanalyst, died on Saturday at his home in Sacramento, Calif., after a long illness. He was 82 years old and had lived in Manhattan for most of his professional life. Sylvan Keiser, a retired psychoanalyst, died on Saturday at his home in Sacrament
Dr. George Yohe Lesher, a scientist who discovered drugs used in treating heart disease, drowned in a canoeing accident on Saturday at Normans Kill in Guilderland, N.Y. He was 64 years old and lived in East Greenbush, N.Y. Dr. George Yohe Lesher, a scientist who discovered dru
Harton Singer Semple, who was president of the United States Golf Association in 1974 and 1975, died of heart failure on Sunday in Augusta, Ga. He was 69 years old. Harton Singer Semple, who was president of the United States Golf Association in 1974 and 1975, died of heart fa
Lord Rothschild, a scientist and member of the famous banking family who was linked to one of Britain's most well-known spy scandals, died Tuesday. He was 79 years old. Lord Rothschild, a scientist and member of the famous banking family who was linked to one of Britain's most
Michael H. Prendergast, a former chairman of the New York State Democratic Committee and a former State Director of Public Safety, died of complications from Parkinson's disease on Tuesday at Good Samaritan Hospital in Suffern, N.Y. He was 76 years old and lived in Haverstraw, N.Y.   
Mitchell Salem Fisher, a rabbi who resigned his pulpit to become a lawyer, died of a heart ailment on Monday at Greenwood House, Home for the Jewish Aging in Ewing, N.J. He was 86 years old and lived in Princeton. Mitchell Salem Fisher, a rabbi who resigned his pulpit to becom
Herman Katz, a former New York City Clerk and a former Assemblyman from the Yorkville section of Manhattan, died on Wednesday at Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount Kisco, N.Y. He was 90 years old and lived in Manhattan and Katonah, N.Y. Herman Katz, a former New York City 
James H. R. Cromwell, a wealthy businessman who was briefly a politician and diplomat and best known in the 1930's and 40's as the husband of ''the richest girl in the world,'' Doris Duke, died of a pulmonary ailment on Monday at the Marin Terrace retirement home in Mill Valley, Calif
Jason Boe, a former President of the Oregon Senate who dominated the Legislature in the 1970's, died of a heart attack on Tuesday at University Hospital here. He was 61 years old and lived in Portland. Jason Boe, a former President of the Oregon Senate who dominated the Legisl
Maurice Cloche, a director best known for his Oscar-winning film ''Monsieur Vincent,'' died on Tuesday at his home in Bordeaux after a long illness. He was 82 years old and had Parkinson's disease. Maurice Cloche, a director best known for his Oscar-winning film ''Monsieur Vin
Rayburn Wright, a conductor, trombonist, arranger and teacher, died of cancer on Wednesday at his home in Rochester. He was 67 years old. Rayburn Wright, a conductor, trombonist, arranger and teacher, died of cancer on Wednesday at his home in Rochester. He was 67 years old.  
Robert A. Sander, president and chief operating officer of Golden Valley Microwave Foods Inc., in Edina, Minn., died of cancer on Monday at University Hospital in Ann Arbor, Mich., where he was undergoing treatment. Robert A. Sander, president and chief operating officer of Go
Robert H. Bahmer, who retired as Archivist of the United States in 1968, died March 14 at the El Gen nursing home in Las Vegas. He was 86 years old and had lived in Chevy Chase, Md., before moving to Las Vegas in the early 1970's. Robert H. Bahmer, who retired as Archivist of 
William Kelly Beard, a retired business publications executive, died on Thursday at White Plains Hospital. He was 91 years old and lived in Scarsdale, N.Y. William Kelly Beard, a retired business publications executive, died on Thursday at White Plains Hospital. He was 91 year
The Rev. Winfield Blair Sutphin, a nationally known television preacher in the 1950's, died of pulmonary failure on March 12 at his home in Pompano Beach, Fla. He was 71 years old. The Rev. Winfield Blair Sutphin, a nationally known television preacher in the 1950's, died of p
Anthony J. Prudenti, a contractor who was Suffolk County Republican chairman from 1980 to 1984, died of a heart attack on Thursday at the John F. Kennedy Medical Center in Edison, N.J. He was 61 years old and lived in Blue Point, L.I. Anthony J. Prudenti, a contractor who was 
David Singer, a professor of economics, died of cancer on Tuesday at the home of a friend, Sheila Steckel, in Manhattan. He was 63 years old and lived in Manhattan. David Singer, a professor of economics, died of cancer on Tuesday at the home of a friend, Sheila Steckel, in Ma
George Cooper, deputy chairman of the department of biology at City College of the City University of New York, died of cancer on Thursday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 61 years old and lived in Orangeburg, N.Y. George Cooper, deputy chairman of the departmen
John Jardine, who coached the Wisconsin football team from 1970 through 1977, died of heart failure today at the University of Wisconsin Hospital. He was 54 years old. John Jardine, who coached the Wisconsin football team from 1970 through 1977, died of heart failure today at 
Robert Karplus, a professor of physics at the University of California at Berkeley for more than 35 years who led in developing new techniques for teaching science in elementary schools, died of a heart attack on Thursday at a convalescent home in Moraga, Calif. He was 63 years old an
Ronald T. Lyman Jr., who retired in 1970 as a general partner of Scudder Stevens & Clark after 40 years with the Boston investment firm, died of a stroke on Monday at Roper Hospital in Charleston, S.C. He was 84 years old and lived in Boston and Charleston. Ronald T. Lyman Jr.
Alvin R. Jennings, a former managing partner of Coopers & Lybrand and a past president of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, died of a stroke on March 14 in Miami, where he lived in retirement. He was 85 years old. Alvin R. Jennings, a former managing part
An Wang, the founder of Wang Laboratories and the inventor of a doughnut-shaped ring of iron that served as the core of computer memory until the microchip came along, died of cancer yesterday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 70 years old. An Wang, the found
Charles P. Smyth, a chemist on the Princeton University faculty for more than 40 years, died on March 18 at his home in Bozeman, Mont. He was 94 years old. Charles P. Smyth, a chemist on the Princeton University faculty for more than 40 years, died on March 18 at his home in B
Elliott S. M. Gatner, who retired in 1981 from Long Island University after helping to shape that institution in a 45-year career as a history professor, librarian and administrator, died of lung cancer on Friday at Long Island Jewish Medical Center in New Hyde Park, N.Y. He was 75 ye
Felix W. Salmaggi, an opera impresario and theater manager, died of cancer on Monday at the Hospice of Northern Virginia in Arlington, Va. He was 77 years old and lived in Falls Church, Va. Felix W. Salmaggi, an opera impresario and theater manager, died of cancer on Monday at
Gerald V. Bull, a Canadian-born rocket scientist and international arms consultant who ran afoul of a weapons embargo against South Africa, was shot to death on Thursday night at his apartment in a suburb of Brussels, the authorities said. He was 62 years old. Gerald V. Bull, 
Jack Disbrow Gunther, a chemical industry executive and conservationist, died of pneumonia on Friday in Hartford Hospital in Hartford. Jack Disbrow Gunther, a chemical industry executive and conservationist, died of pneumonia on Friday in Hartford Hospital in Hartford.        
James D. Heslin, an executive with the Tishman Construction Corporation for 23 years, died of a heart attack on Thursday at St. Clare's Hospital in New York City. He was 60 years old and lived in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. James D. Heslin, an executive with the Tishma
Robert A. Miller, a member of the new generation of black fashion designers, died on Wednesday at St. Vincent's Hospital after a long illness. He was 47 years old and lived in Manhattan. Robert A. Miller, a member of the new generation of black fashion designers, died on Wedne
Al Sears, a tenor saxophonist in major jazz bands and an original swing arranger whose own band toured American Army camps in World War II, died of lung cancer on Friday at his home in St. Albans, Queens. He was 80 years old. Al Sears, a tenor saxophonist in major jazz bands a
Alfred H. Greenberg, the editor in chief of Skiing magazine for more than a decade, died of leukemia on Saturday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 65 years old and lived in Larchmont, N.Y. Alfred H. Greenberg, the editor in chief of Skiing magazine for more than a decade, 
Dr. Nasrollah S. Fatemi, director emeritus of the Graduate Institute of International Studies at Fairleigh Dickinson University and the author of books on subjects ranging from international economics to poetry, died of a heart attack on Friday at Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. H
J. H. Raspberry, the president of the South Atlantic and Gulf Coast District of the International Longshoremen's Associationm died of a heart attack Thursday at age 56. J. H. Raspberry, the president of the South Atlantic and Gulf Coast District of the International Longshorem
Dr. Klaus E. Knorr, professor emeritus of public affairs at Princeton University and the director of its Center of International Studies from 1960 to 1968, died of cancer yesterday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 78 years old. Dr. Klaus E. Knorr, professor emeritus of pu
Ray Goulding, who was half of the Bob and Ray comedy team that delighted radio and television audiences for more than four decades with low-key humor and gentle satire, died of kidney failure on Saturday at his home in Manhasset, L.I. He was 68 years old. Ray Goulding, who was
Dr. Benjamin Morton Siegel, a scientist and educator, died on Thursday at Sarasota Memorial Hospital in Florida after a brief illness. He was 73 years old and lived in Sarasota. Dr. Benjamin Morton Siegel, a scientist and educator, died on Thursday at Sarasota Memorial Hospita
Charles R. Jones, retired vice president for external affairs for A.T.& T.'s eastern region, died on Saturday at his home in Westfield, N.J., after a long illness. He was 61 years old. Charles R. Jones, retired vice president for external affairs for A.T.& T.'s eastern region,
Dr. James Eliab Perkins, an epidemiologist and former managing director of the National Tuberculosis Association, now known as the American Lung Association, died of complications from Parkinson's disease on Sunday at Saddleback Memorial Hospital in Laguna Hills, Calif. He was 84 year
Rabbi Eli Chaim Carlebach, the co-rabbi of Congregation Kehilath Jacob on the Upper West Side of Manhattan with his twin brother Shlomo, died of a heart attack on Friday after leaving a synagogue in Hillside, N.J. He was 65 years old. Rabbi Eli Chaim Carlebach, the co-rabbi of
Hobart C. Carr, professor of banking at Adelphi University and professor emeritus of banking at New York University, died on Sunday at University Hospital in Mineola, L.I., several days after suffering a heart attack. He was 78 years old and lived in Garden City, L.I. Hobart C
John Dexter, a leading English director of theater and opera, died of heart failure in a London hospital on Friday. He was 64 years old. Mr. Dexter, who won two Tony Awards, was known for the sweep of his directorial imagination with contemporary plays as well as with classics. One of
John J. Fowler Jr., former president and director of the Sterling National Bank and Trust Company of New York, died of congestive heart failure on Sunday at the Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 68 years old and lived in Manhattan. John J. Fowler Jr., former pres
John H. Stamler, the Prosecutor in Union County, N.J., for 13 years, died of cancer on Sunday at his home in Scotch Plains, N.J. He was 51 years old. John H. Stamler, the Prosecutor in Union County, N.J., for 13 years, died of cancer on Sunday at his home in Scotch Plains, N.J
Sheldon Shkolnik, a concert pianist who played with many American orchestras, died of AIDS on Saturday at his home in Chicago. He was 52 years old. Sheldon Shkolnik, a concert pianist who played with many American orchestras, died of AIDS on Saturday at his home in Chicago. He
Theodore S. Cart, founder of two companies in Trenton, died on Sunday at his home in Lake Wales, Fla. He was 91 years old. Mr. Cart founded the Pocono Rubber Cloth Company, manufacturer of material for automobile tops, in 1920. Five years later he organized Atlantic Products, which ma
Edward Cristy Welsh, an educator and economist who played a leading role in developing the nation's space program, died of a stroke on Sunday at the Charter House nursing home in Silver Spring, Md. He was 81 years old and had lived at the nursing home for two years. Edward Cri
Halston, the designer who personified American fashion in the 1970's, died of complications from AIDS Monday night at Pacific Presbyterian Hospital in San Francisco. He was 57 years old and had lived in New York before moving to San Francisco earlier this year. Halston, the de
James Kahn, the president of the Pension Planning Company of Manhattan, a division of Republic Hogg Robinson, was killed in an automobile accident en route to the airport in West Palm Beach, Fla., on Monday. He was 64 years old and lived in White Plains and Palm Beach. James K
Bishop John L. Morkovsky, retired head of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Galveston-Houston, died of a stroke on Saturday. He was 80 years old.  Bishop Morkovsky led the diocese from June 1963 until his retirement in 1985. Bishop John L. Morkovsky, retired head of the Roman Cath
Rene Enriquez, an actor who portrayed Lieut. Ray Calletano on the award-winning television series ''Hill Street Blues,'' died of pancreatic cancer at his home in suburban Tarzana on Friday. He was 56 years old. Rene Enriquez, an actor who portrayed Lieut. Ray Calletano on the 
William Thomas Scott, assistant to the president of the United Federation of Teachers and a former deputy city comptroller who played an important role in rescuing the city from its fiscal crisis in the 1970's, died of a heart attack on Monday at a friend's house in Tarpon Springs, Fl
Comdr. Bradwell Turner, who led a daring rescue of 299 Allied seamen held prisoner on a German ship in 1940, died on March 21 at the age of 92. The cause of death was not disclosed. Commander Turner led a boarding party from the British destroyer Cossack, which freed the prisoners fro
Donald Davidson, a special assistant with the Houston Astros whose baseball career spanned more than 40 years, died today after having suffered from cancer. He was 64 years old. Donald Davidson, a special assistant with the Houston Astros whose baseball career spanned more tha
Gerald F. Wright, a former investment counselor and consulting engineer in Manhattan, died on Tuesday at his home in Atlanta. He was 85 years old. Gerald F. Wright, a former investment counselor and consulting engineer in Manhattan, died on Tuesday at his home in Atlanta. He w
Henry D. Hecksher, a former Central Intelligence Agency officer, died of complications of Parkinson's disease yesterday at the Medical Center of Princeton, N.J. He was 79 years old and lived in Princeton. Henry D. Hecksher, a former Central Intelligence Agency officer, died of
Julius J. Schaefer, a transportation broker, died of a heart attack on March 22 at the Miami Heart Institute in Miami Beach. He was 72 years old and had homes in Englewood Cliffs, N.J., and North Miami Beach, Fla. Julius J. Schaefer, a transportation broker, died of a heart at
Lung Chin, a merchant and community leader in Chinatown for more than 60 years, died of cancer on Tuesday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 84 years old and had lived at 37 Mott Street since 1915, several months after emigrating from China. Lung Chin, a merchant and community 
Morton R. Tolleris, a retired Criminal Court judge, died of a heart attack on Tuesday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 81 years old and lived in Manhattan. Morton R. Tolleris, a retired Criminal Court judge, died of a heart attack on Tuesday at St. 
Patrick W. O'Brien, a well-known figure in thoroughbred racing who had been involved in the sport in New York for more than 40 years, died of a heart attack on Tuesday at his home in Garden City, L.I. He was 64 years old. Patrick W. O'Brien, a well-known figure in thoroughbred
Percy Beard, a silver medalist in the 110-meter hurdles in the 1932 Olympic Games at Los Angeles and the coach of the track team at the University of Florida from 1936 to 1964, died Tuesday in Gainesville, Fla., after a long illness. He was 82 years old. Mr. Beard, who set five world 
Donald Davidson, a special assistant with the Houston Astros whose baseball career spanned more than 40 years, died on Wednesday after having suffered from cancer. He was 64 years old. Donald Davidson, a special assistant with the Houston Astros whose baseball career spanned m
George A. McKenna, a retired battalion chief in the New York City Fire Department and a former manager of security at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died on Sunday at North Shore Hospital in Manhasset, L.I., after a long illness. He was 79 years old and lived in Holliswood, Queens.  
Giovanni Costigan, a history professor emeritus at the University of Washington who was a leading political and social liberal in the Northwest, died of a heart attack on Saturday in Seville, Spain, where he was a guest lecturer on a European tour. He was 85 years old and lived in Sea
Henry W. Happel, a retired senior partner in the Manhattan law firm of Brown & Wood, died on Sunday at Riverhead Hospital on Long Island after a long illness. He was 78 years old and lived in Quogue, L.I. Henry W. Happel, a retired senior partner in the Manhattan law firm of B
Isidore Adler, a scientist, educator and researcher who was among the first to map the chemical composition of the back of the moon, died of cancer on Monday at Holy Cross Hospital in Silver Spring, Md. He was 73 years old and lived in Silver Spring. Isidore Adler, a scientist
Johnny Neun, one of only nine major league players to execute an unassisted triple play, died of pancreatic cancer Wednesday at Union Memorial Hospital. He was 89 years old. Johnny Neun, one of only nine major league players to execute an unassisted triple play, died of pancre
Karl Brown, a pioneering Hollywood cinematographer who worked on D. W. Griffith's 1915 silent film epic, ''The Birth of a Nation,'' and wrote several screenplays, died Sunday at the Motion Picture and Television Hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 93 years old. Karl Brow
Leo Schwartz, a retired New York surgeon who was an ear, nose and throat specialist, died of a heart attack on Wednesday at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 87 years old and had lived in Florida for 17 years. Leo Schwartz, a retired New York surgeon who was an ear, nose and t
Lester J. Maitland, a hero of pioneer aviation who became an Episcopal priest late in life, died on Tuesday night at a rest home in Scottsdale. He was 91 years old. Lester J. Maitland, a hero of pioneer aviation who became an Episcopal priest late in life, died on Tuesday nigh
Stephen Bander, president of the National Systems Corporation, died of a brain tumor yesterday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 43 years old and lived in Manhattan. Stephen Bander, president of the National Systems Corporation, died of a brain
Dr. Arthur Lee Wooten Jr., a retired research chemist and educator, died of cancer on Thursday at his home in Durham, N.C. He was 67 years old. Dr. Arthur Lee Wooten Jr., a retired research chemist and educator, died of cancer on Thursday at his home in Durham, N.C. He was 67 
Frank L. Haynes Jr., vice president and assistant general counsel at the Prudential Insurance Company in Newark, died on Monday at the Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 45 years old and lived in Manhattan. Frank L. Haynes Jr., vice president and assista
Harry Bridges, a leading figure in America's 20th-century labor movement who organized the West Coast longshoremen in the 1930's, died of emphysema yesterday at his home in San Francisco, the longshoremen's union reported. He was 88 years old. Harry Bridges, a leading figure i
Joseph Oakland Hirschfelder, a physicist and educator who contributed to the development of the atomic bomb, died of cancer yesterday at his home in Madison, Wis. He was 78 years old. Joseph Oakland Hirschfelder, a physicist and educator who contributed to the development of t
Kurt Weinhold, a former president of Columbia Artists Management, died of emphysema on Friday at St. Clare's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 88 years old. Kurt Weinhold, a former president of Columbia Artists Management, died of emphysema on Friday at St. Clare's Hospital in Man
Maxwell S. Stewart, a retired editor, author and economist, died on Tuesday at his home in Sun City Center, Fla. He was 89 years old and also had a residence in Annandale, N.J. Maxwell S. Stewart, a retired editor, author and economist, died on Tuesday at his home in Sun City 
Ralph McKenzie Freeman, a senior Federal district judge, died Thursday after undergoing surgery for a ruptured aorta at William Beaumont Hospital in Royal Oak, Mich. He was 87 years old. Ralph McKenzie Freeman, a senior Federal district judge, died Thursday after undergoing su
Robert Ward Blauvelt, former president of Porcella Vicini & Company, a Manhattan shipping concern, died on Wednesday at his home in Franklin Lakes, N.J., after a long illness. He was 71 years old. Robert Ward Blauvelt, former president of Porcella Vicini & Company, a Manhattan
