Alan Harrison Temple, a leading private economist and banker who retired as vice chairman of the First National City Bank of New York in 1961, died last Thursday at the King Street Home in Rye Brook, N.Y. He was 90 years old and lived in Scarsdale, N.Y. Alan Harrison Temple, a
Dr. Reinhold Benesch, a biochemist best known for his study of red blood cells, died of complications arising from lymphatic cancer, at Columbia-Presyterian Medical Center Tuesday. He was 67 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Reinhold Benesch, a biochemist best known for hi
Joseph L. Blau, professor emeritus of religion at Columbia University, died Sunday at his home in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. He was 77 years old. Joseph L. Blau, professor emeritus of religion at Columbia University, died Sunday at his home in the Riverdale section of
John F. Harbeson, consulting architect to the American Battle Monuments Commission from 1945 to 1980, died Dec. 21 at his son's home in Philadelphia. He was 98 years old. John F. Harbeson, consulting architect to the American Battle Monuments Commission from 1945 to 1980, died
Richard Dougherty, a former vice president of the Metropolitan Museum who was also a novelist, died of lung cancer Tuesday in Southampton (L.I.) Hospital. He was 65 years old. Richard Dougherty, a former vice president of the Metropolitan Museum who was also a novelist, died o
Raj Narain, a colorful Socialist leader who defeated Prime Minister Indira Gandhi in a parliamentary election and played a key role in the fall of a successor, died of a heart attack here Tuesday night. He was 69 years old. Raj Narain, a colorful Socialist leader who defeated 
Edwin Joel Thomas, who was born here and grew up to become president and then chief executive officer and chairman of the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company, died Tuesday at the Akron General Medical Center. He was 87 years old. Edwin Joel Thomas, who was born here and grew up t
Lester Trimble, a composer, critic and music teacher, died Wednesday afternoon of heart failure. The 63-year-old composer, who had had a heart condition, collapsed shortly after noon in a restaurant on Broadway and was dead on arrival at Roosevelt Hospital. Lester Trimble, a c
Philip B. Hofmann, a former chairman and chief executive officer of Johnson & Johnson, died of a heart attack Tuesday at the Miami Heart Institute in Florida. He was 77 years old and lived in Monmouth Beach, N.J., and Surfside, Fla. Philip B. Hofmann, a former chairman and chi
Dr. Alan Gabriel Barnsley, a physician and professor who wrote novels and poetry under the pseudonym Gabriel Fielding, died of lung cancer Nov. 27 at the home of a daughter in Bellevue, Wash. He was 70 years old and lived in Pullman, Wash. Dr. Alan Gabriel Barnsley, a physicia
Donald M. Fleming, a former Canadian Cabinet member and International Monetary Fund official, died Wednesday in Toronto after a stroke, according to an associate. He was 81 years old. Donald M. Fleming, a former Canadian Cabinet member and International Monetary Fund official,
Ellerton M. Jette, former president of the C. F. Hathaway Company, died of a heart ailment Dec. 27 at a retirement home in Chestnut, Mass. He was 87 years old. Ellerton M. Jette, former president of the C. F. Hathaway Company, died of a heart ailment Dec. 27 at a retirement ho
Joseph Hirkala, a New Jersey State Senator since 1972, died Thursday, apparently of a heart attack, in his hometown of Passaic. He was 63 years old. Joseph Hirkala, a New Jersey State Senator since 1972, died Thursday, apparently of a heart attack, in his hometown of Passaic. 
Matthew J. Rinaldo Sr., father of United States Representative Matthew J. Rinaldo Jr., Republican of New Jersey, died of a heart attack Wednesday at Overlook Hospital in Summit, N.J. He was 79 years old and lived in Union. The elder Mr. Rinaldo, who retired in 1970, worked as a resear
Peter S. Zeiler, a criminal defense lawyer in New York City, died Tuesday in Rio de Janeiro. The 43-year-old lawyer drowned while swimming in the Atlantic Ocean. He lived in Manhattan. Peter S. Zeiler, a criminal defense lawyer in New York City, died Tuesday in Rio de Janeiro.
David Maysles, the documentary film maker, credited with his brother, Albert, as being one of the founders of the documentary genre known as cinema verite, died at Roosevelt Hospital yesterday after suffering a stroke Sunday. He was 54 years old and lived in Manhattan. David M
Joseph S. Herrington, chief of the metropolitan copy desk of The New York Times for 18 years, died of complications of heart disease and emphysema Friday at St. Luke's Hospital. He was 58 years old and lived in Manhattan. Joseph S. Herrington, chief of the metropolitan copy de
W. R. Poage, who represented central Texas's 11th Congressional District in for 42 years until retiring in 1978, died yesterday of heart failure after emergency surgery at Scott and White Memorial Hospital in Temple, Tex. He was 87 years old and a resident and native of Waco. 
John Bartlow Martin, the author, speechwriter and confidant of Democratic politicans who also served as Ambassador to the Dominican Republic, died Saturday of throat cancer at Highland Park Hospital in Highland Park, Ill. Mr. Martin, who had lived in the area for more than 40 years, w
Lloyd Haynes, an actor who was best known for his portrayal of the history teacher Pete Dixon in the Emmy Award-winning television series ''Room 222,'' died of lung cancer Wednesday in Coronado, Calif. He was 52 years old. Lloyd Haynes, an actor who was best known for his port
Dr. Ramon Castroviejo, a Spanish-born pioneering eye-surgeon who worked and taught in New York for most of his career, died Thursday in a Madrid hospital after a brief illness. He was 82 years old and had lived in the Spanish capital since his retirement in 1972. Dr. Ramon Cas
John R. Starkey, who served for 20 years on the New York State Supreme Court, died Thursday. He was 82 years old and lived in Amityville, L.I. John R. Starkey, who served for 20 years on the New York State Supreme Court, died Thursday. He was 82 years old and lived in Amityvil
Dale Mitchell, the former outfielder who spent almost all of his major league career with the Cleveland Indians but is perhaps best remembered for making the final out in Don Larsen's perfect game in the 1956 World Series, died today of a heart attack. He was 65 years old. Dal
George Dangerfield, the British-born American historian, died of leukemia on Dec. 27 at Cottage Hospital in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 82 years old. George Dangerfield, the British-born American historian, died of leukemia on Dec. 27 at Cottage Hospital in Santa Barbara, Cal
Dwight Taylor, a playwright, screenwriter and author, died of a heart attack Wednesday at the Motion Picture and Television Hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 84 years old and had lived at the hospital since 1981. Dwight Taylor, a playwright, screenwriter and author, di
Warren Scripps Booth, former president, publisher and chairman of The Detroit News, died Sunday after a brief illness. He was 92 years old. Warren Scripps Booth, former president, publisher and chairman of The Detroit News, died Sunday after a brief illness. He was 92 years ol
Dr. Leon Rudorfer, a clinical professor of psychiatry at the Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn for 28 years, died Saturday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 75 years old. Dr. Leon Rudorfer, a clinical professor of psychiatry at the Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn for 28 
Edwin J. Thomas, retired chairman of the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company, died last Tuesday at the Akron General Medical Center in Ohio. He was 87 years old and lived in Akron. Edwin J. Thomas, retired chairman of the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company, died last Tuesday at the
Sigurd S. Larmon, who as chairman of Young & Rubicam from 1944 to 1962 was a leading figure in advertising, died Thursday at the Courtland Gardens Health Center in Stamford, Conn. He was 95 years old and lived in Manhattan. Sigurd S. Larmon, who as chairman of Young & Rubicam 
Thomas R. Fortune, a prominent black political leader and state legislator who represented the 55th Assembly District of Brooklyn from 1969 to 1982, died Dec. 30 at the Kingsbrook Jewish Medical Center. He was 69 years old and lived in Brooklyn. Thomas R. Fortune, a prominent 
George R. Marek, an author and formerly an influential record executive for RCA Victor who was perhaps best known for his associations with such artists as Arturo Toscanini and Arthur Rubinstein, died yesterday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 84 years old and lived in 
Dr. Nicholas Michelson, a cardiologist and psychiatrist for many years, died last Thursday at the Muhlenberg Hospital in Plainfield, N.J. He was 89 years old and lived in Watchung, N.J. Dr. Nicholas Michelson, a cardiologist and psychiatrist for many years, died last Thursday 
Reinhard A. Hohaus, a former insurance executive and an adviser to governmental bodies, died Monday at his home in Westport, Conn. He was 90 years old. Reinhard A. Hohaus, a former insurance executive and an adviser to governmental bodies, died Monday at his home in Westport, 
Judge Walter Roe Mansfield of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, who recently participated in the selection of a special counsel to investigate the Iran-contra scandal, died yesterday while on vacation in Christchurch, New Zealand. He was 75 years old and lived
Thomas J. Hamilton, a New York Times correspondent for 35 years who was chief of the paper's United Nations bureau from 1946 to 1965, died yesterday of a heart attack at his home in Heritage Village in Southbury, Conn. He was 77 years old.  Mr. Hamilton headed the Madrid bureau of The
Otto M. Buerger, who served as a lawyer for the Long Island Rail Road for 28 years until his retirement in 1963, died in his sleep Dec. 29 at his home in Sands Point, L.I. He was 88 years old. Otto M. Buerger, who served as a lawyer for the Long Island Rail Road for 28 years u
Phil Seghi, who hired Frank Robinson as baseball's first black manager with Cleveland in 1975 and signed Pete Rose for the Cincinnati Reds in 1960, died today in Thousand Oaks, Calif., after a long illness with cancer. He was 68 years old. Phil Seghi, who hired Frank Robinson 
The Rev. Samuel Davis, rector of St. Luke's Episcopal Church in East Hampton, L.I., from 1941 until 1978, died Wednesday at Southampton (L.I.) Hospital. He was 73 years old and lived in retirement in East Hampton. The Rev. Samuel Davis, rector of St. Luke's Episcopal Church in
Bill Tynes, the founder and the artistic director of the New Amsterdam Theater Company, died yesterday morning at his parents' home in Placentia, Calif., of complications from acquired immune deficiency syndrome, his mother said. He was 30 years old and lived in Manhattan. Bil
Don Sleet, a jazz musician who was Downbeat magazine's trumpeter of the year three times during the 1950's, died Dec. 31 of cancer. He was 48 years old. Don Sleet, a jazz musician who was Downbeat magazine's trumpeter of the year three times during the 1950's, died Dec. 31 of 
Phil Seghi, who hired Frank Robinson as baseball's first black manager with the Cleveland Indians in 1975 and signed Pete Rose for the Cincinnati Reds in 1960, died Thursday in Thousand Oaks, Calif., after a long illness with cancer. He was 68 years old.  Mr. Seghi, who was the senior
Pierre M. George, senior officer of the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of North and South America, died Thursday at Roosevelt Hospital after a long illness. He was 87 years old and lived in Manhattan. Pierre M. George, senior officer of the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of North and 
Arthur Lake, who portrayed the comic strip character Dagwood Bumstead and called for help with a high-pitched ''Blonnndie!'' in more than two dozen films, has died at the age of 81. Arthur Lake, who portrayed the comic strip character Dagwood Bumstead and called for help with 
Prof. Alex B. Novikoff, a cellular biologist and a professor of pathology at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine for the last 28 years, died Friday at the college's hospital. He was 73 years old and lived in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. Prof. Alex B. Novikoff, a cel
McDill Boyd, a member of the Republican National Committee since 1965, died Friday of lung cancer. He was 79 years old. McDill Boyd, a member of the Republican National Committee since 1965, died Friday of lung cancer. He was 79 years old. Mr. Boyd, a newspaper publish
The Rev. William F. Lynch, the author of books on literature, media and theology, died Friday at Lennox Hill Hospital in New York City of complications from leukemia. He was 78 years old. The Rev. William F. Lynch, the author of books on literature, media and theology, died Fr
Dominick Labino, an artist whose works made of glass are shown in more than 100 museums, universities and public and private collections, died Saturday in his home at Grand Rapids, Ohio. He was 76 years old. Dominick Labino, an artist whose works made of glass are shown in mor
Harold Eliot Krents, whose struggle to overcome blindness and become independent was the inspiration for the Broadway play ''Butterflies Are Free,'' died of a brain tumor yesterday at the Calvary Hospital Hospice in the Bronx. He was 42 years old and lived in Washington. Harol
Maurice Villency, a pioneer in the design of contemporary furniture whose signature served as the logo for his chain of stores in the New York metropolitan region, died Sunday morning of heart failure at his home in Brookville, L.I. He was 85 years old. Maurice Villency, a pio
Richard K. Sykes, president of Dresner-Sykes Associates Inc., political campaign consultants with offices in Manhattan and San Diego, drowned Jan. 6 while exploring a tidal pool on Molokai Island in Hawaii. He was 35 years old and lived in Manhattan and Molokai. Richard K. Syk
William M. Judd, a manager of major classical musicians for more than 40 years, died of heart failure yesterday in Southampton (L.I.) Hospital. He was 70 years old. William M. Judd, a manager of major classical musicians for more than 40 years, died of heart failure yesterday 
Alfred Y. Allee, a former Texas Ranger who gained national attention fighting political bosses and breaking up farmworker strikes in south Texas, died of cancer Monday. He was 81 years old. Alfred Y. Allee, a former Texas Ranger who gained national attention fighting political
Anatoly V. Efros, the director of Moscow's Taganka Theater and a leading Soviet director for the last 20 years, died of a heart attack today, the official news agency Tass announced. He was 61 years old. Anatoly V. Efros, the director of Moscow's Taganka Theater and a leading 
Dr. Milton Werbel, president of the Podiatry Society of the State of New York in the mid-1950's, died of a heart attack Jan. 8 at Palm Beach Lakes Hospital, Fla. He was 77 years old and lived in Royal Palm Beach. Dr. Milton Werbel, president of the Podiatry Society of the Stat
Ernest O. Melby, a former dean at New York University and a former president of Montana State University, died Sunday in Boca Raton, Fla., where he had lived for the last six years. He was 95 years old. Ernest O. Melby, a former dean at New York University and a former preside
Dr. H. R. Wei, an educator, author, nuclear physicist and former adviser to the Republic of China Mission to the United Nations, died Jan. 2 in Honolulu. Dr. H. R. Wei, an educator, author, nuclear physicist and former adviser to the Republic of China Mission to the United Nat
Robert S. Danforth, former head of investment research at Goldman, Sachs & Company, died Saturday at New York Hospital after a brief illness. He was 60 years old and lived in Manhattan. Robert S. Danforth, former head of investment research at Goldman, Sachs & Company, died Sa
Alexander Leitch, secretary of Princeton University for 32 years and a senior administrative officer for another decade, died of cancer Sunday at his home in Pennington, N.J. He was 86 years old. Alexander Leitch, secretary of Princeton University for 32 years and a senior adm
Charles B. Ferris, an architect and engineer and a retired brigadier general in the Army Reserve, died Sunday at the Riverview Medical Center in Red Bank, N.J. He was 82 years old and lived in Shrewsbury, N.J. Charles B. Ferris, an architect and engineer and a retired brigadie
Glenn Odekirk, the designer and builder of Howard Hughes's giant flying boat, the Spruce Goose, which flew only once, died of cancer Monday at Nathan Adelson Hospice. He was 81 years old. Glenn Odekirk, the designer and builder of Howard Hughes's giant flying boat, the Spruce 
Harry Avirom, the supervisor of the demolition of many New York City landmarks, including Ebbets Field, the old Belmont Park and the Polo Grounds, died of heart disease Sunday at St. John's Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 72 years old and lived in Santa Monica. Harry A
John Danielson, an administrator at hospitals and medical centers for more than 30 years, died Monday at the age of 62. John Danielson, an administrator at hospitals and medical centers for more than 30 years, died Monday at the age of 62. Mr. Danielson served as admin
Maury Stein, a music store operator, big-band musician and brother of the songwriter Jule Styne, died of a heart attack Saturday. He was 76. Maury Stein, a music store operator, big-band musician and brother of the songwriter Jule Styne, died of a heart attack Saturday. He was
Maurice Golubov, an abstract painter, died Saturday at his home in Peekskill, N.Y. He was 82 years old. Maurice Golubov, an abstract painter, died Saturday at his home in Peekskill, N.Y. He was 82 years old. Mr. Golubov was born in Kiev, Russia, and came to the United 
Philip Heimlich, a retired social worker who founded a program to assist troubled youths, died Dec. 30 in Cincinnati, where he had lived for 12 years. He was 99 years old. Philip Heimlich, a retired social worker who founded a program to assist troubled youths, died Dec. 30 in
The Rev. R. Mark Wallace Coonradt, senior pastor of Rutgers Presbyterian Church on the Upper West Side, died Tuesday at the age of 52 after a long illness. The Rev. R. Mark Wallace Coonradt, senior pastor of Rutgers Presbyterian Church on the Upper West Side, died Tuesday at t
Stan Steiner, a writer whose works dealt largely with American minority groups, particularly Indians and Mexican-Americans, died of a heart attack Monday at his home in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 62 years old. Stan Steiner, a writer whose works dealt largely with American minority 
Tom Morgan, a former relief pitcher for the Yankees and one of the original members of the Los Angeles Angels in 1961, died today following complications from a stroke he suffered last week. He was 56 years old. Tom Morgan, a former relief pitcher for the Yankees and one of th
Douglas Sirk, the director whose Hollywood melodramas included ''Magnificent Obsession'' and ''Written on the Wind,'' died Wednesday in Lugano at age 86. Douglas Sirk, the director whose Hollywood melodramas included ''Magnificent Obsession'' and ''Written on the Wind,'' died 
Matt Hazeltine, one of three former San Francisco 49ers players stricken with Lou Gehrig's disease in the last two years, died from the disease Wednesday. He was 53 years old. Matt Hazeltine, one of three former San Francisco 49ers players stricken with Lou Gehrig's disease in
Ray Bolger, the loose-limbed song-and-dance man who became known to millions as the Scarecrow in ''The Wizard of Oz,'' died yesterday of cancer in Los Angeles. He had his 83d birthday last Saturday and lived in Beverly Hills. Ray Bolger, the loose-limbed song-and-dance man who
Robert Swanton Driscoll, former managing partner of Lord, Abbett & Company, an investment management firm, died of a heart attack Tuesday at his home in Chappaqua, N.Y. He was 75 years old. Robert Swanton Driscoll, former managing partner of Lord, Abbett & Company, an investme
Sam Wagstaff, a former museum curator who became a leading collector of photography, died of pneumonia Wednesday morning at his home in Manhattan. He was 65 years old. Sam Wagstaff, a former museum curator who became a leading collector of photography, died of pneumonia Wednes
Arthur Drexler, for 35 years the highly influential curator and director of the Department of Architecture and Design at the Museum of Modern Art, died of pancreatic cancer in New York yesterday. He was 61 years old. Arthur Drexler, for 35 years the highly influential curator 
Earl Wilson, who chronicled New York's night life for four decades in a chatty syndicated column that originated in The New York Post, died yesterday at St. Joseph's Medical Center in Yonkers. He was 79 years old and lived in Yonkers. Earl Wilson, who chronicled New York's nig
Edward D. Kuekes, whose editorial cartoon on the irony of young men going to war before being old enough to vote won him a Pulitzer Prize in 1953, died Tuesday in a retirement home in Oklahoma City. He was 85 years old. Edward D. Kuekes, whose editorial cartoon on the irony of
Martin Erdmann, a former Manhattan Criminal Court judge and former trial lawyer with the Legal Aid Society, died of heart failure Tuesday at Roosevelt Hospital. He lived in Manhattan and was 72 years old. Martin Erdmann, a former Manhattan Criminal Court judge and former trial
Matt Hazeltine, one of three former San Francisco 49er players stricken with Lou Gehrig's disease in the last two years, died from the disease Wednesday. He was 53 years old. Matt Hazeltine, one of three former San Francisco 49er players stricken with Lou Gehrig's disease in t
The Rev. Dr. Wallace McPherson Alston, president emeritus of Agnes Scott College in Decatur, Ga., died Wedesday at his home in Lithonia, Ga. He was 80 year old. The Rev. Dr. Wallace McPherson Alston, president emeritus of Agnes Scott College in Decatur, Ga., died Wedesday at h
Harry Darby, a Republican political figure in Kansas, died yesterday at the Bethany Medical Center in Kansas City, Kan. He was 91 years old. Harry Darby, a Republican political figure in Kansas, died yesterday at the Bethany Medical Center in Kansas City, Kan. He was 91 years 
Seymour J. Phillips, chairman of the board of Phillips-Van Heusen Corporation and vice president of Beth Israel Medical Center, died of a heart attack Friday in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 83 years old and lived in Manhattan and Palm Beach. Seymour J. Phillips, chairman of the boa
Philip Young, the chairman of the Civil Service Commission in the first Eisenhower Administration and a former dean of the Columbia University Graduate School of Business, died of a heart attack Thursday at Arlington Hospital in Virginia. Philip Young, the chairman of the Civi
John J. Guerin, the director of advertising sales operations for The New York Times, died Saturday after he suffered a heart attack while playing tennis in Freeport, L.I. He was 56 years old and lived in Bellmore, L.I. John J. Guerin, the director of advertising sales operatio
William H. Latham, an engineer who worked closely with Robert Moses and presided over the construction of the Niagara Project hydroelectric works, died Thursday at Mount Saint Mary's Hospital in Lewiston, N.Y., after a short illness. He was 83 years old and lived in Lewiston. 
Dr. Max J. Routtenberg, former rabbi of Temple B'nai Sholom of Rockville Centre, L.I., died of a heart attack Sunday at his home in Yorktown Heights, N.Y. He was 77 years old. Dr. Max J. Routtenberg, former rabbi of Temple B'nai Sholom of Rockville Centre, L.I., died of a hear
George Selkirk, the man who replaced Babe Ruth in the New York Yankees' outfield in 1934, died here this morning after a long illness. He was 79 years old. George Selkirk, the man who replaced Babe Ruth in the New York Yankees' outfield in 1934, died here this morning after a 
John Van Antwerp Fine, Ewing Professor Emeritus of Greek Languages and Literature at Princeton University, died Saturday at a nursing home in Princeton, N.J. He was 83 years old and lived in Princeton. John Van Antwerp Fine, Ewing Professor Emeritus of Greek Languages and Lite
John F. Malone, head of the regional F.B.I. office in New York from 1962 to 1975, died of a stroke last Thursday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Carbondale, Pa. He was 76 years old and had lived in Carbondale since his retirement in 1975. John F. Malone, head of the regional F.B.I
Paul Kalmanovitz, owner of the Pabst Brewing Company and several other breweries and a prominent figure in the beer industry for more than 40 years, died at his home here Saturday after a long illness. day. He was 81 years old. Paul Kalmanovitz, owner of the Pabst Brewing Comp
Ben Alcock, retired executive vice president and director of creative services of Grey Advertising Inc., died Jan. 14 at Waterbury (Conn.) Hospital. He was 72 years old and lived in Heritage Village in Southbury, Conn. Ben Alcock, retired executive vice president and director 
Dr. Otto Steinbrocker, a pioneer in rheumatoid arthritis research, died of cancer Jan. 11 at his home in Delray, Fla. He was 88 years old. Dr. Otto Steinbrocker, a pioneer in rheumatoid arthritis research, died of cancer Jan. 11 at his home in Delray, Fla. He was 88 years old.
Mark B. Mitin, a Marxist philosopher and member of the Academy of Sciences since 1939, has died, the Tass press agency announced today. He was 85 years old. He was a member of the Central Committee from 1939 to 1961, and a member of the Supreme Soviet, the nominal legislature, from 19
Dr. Benjamin G. Levich, an internationally prominent physical chemist who won a six-year effort to emigrate from the Soviet Union, died of cardiac arrest Monday at Englewood (N.J.) Hospital. He was 69 years old and lived in Fort Lee, N.J. Dr. Benjamin G. Levich, an internation
Aram A. Avakian, a film editor and educator who directed the graphic and unsettling 1970 film ''End of the Road,'' died of heart failure early Saturday morning at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 60 years old. Aram A. Avakian, a film editor and educator who
Arthur Stanton, chairman of World-Wide Volkswagen of Orangeburg in Rockland County, N.Y., died of heart failure Tuesday in Maui, Hawaii. Mr. Stanton was attending a business meeting in Maui. He was 69 years old and lived in Manhattan. Arthur Stanton, chairman of World-Wide Vol
Charles E. Goodell, who shifted from establishment Republican to critic of the Vietnam War and the Nixon White House as he moved from the House of Representatives to representing New York in the United States Senate, died yesterday in Washington. He was 60 years old and had been a Was
Rear Adm. Jack N. Darby, commander of the Pacific Fleet's Submarine Force, died here Monday, apparently of a heart attack. He was 50 years old. Rear Adm. Jack N. Darby, commander of the Pacific Fleet's Submarine Force, died here Monday, apparently of a heart attack. He was 50 
Theodore C. Streibert, first director of the United States Information Agency and a longtime broadcasting executive, died Sunday at his home in Laurel Hollow, Syosset, L.I. He was 87 years old. Theodore C. Streibert, first director of the United States Information Agency and a
Gerald Brenan, a British author who wrote on Spanish history and culture, has died of heart failure, his doctor said today. He was 92 years old. Gerald Brenan, a British author who wrote on Spanish history and culture, has died of heart failure, his doctor said today. He was 9
Dr. Joseph H. Siris, a neurosurgeon and retired director of neurology at Creedmoor State Hospital in Queens Village, Queens, died Thursday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 78 years old and lived in Floral Park, Queens. Dr. Joseph H. Siris, a neurosu
Jack Diether, a music critic who wrote prolifically about the late Romantic symphonic repertory, died Thursday of a heart attack. He was 67 years old and lived in Manhattan. Jack Diether, a music critic who wrote prolifically about the late Romantic symphonic repertory, died T
Leonard Natman, director of operations at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, died Tuesday at New England Deaconess Hospital in Boston from complications from acquired immune deficiency syndrome. He was 34 years old. Leonard Natman, director of operations at the Brooklyn Academy of
Milton Adler, for many years a criminal trial lawyer on the staff of the Legal Aid Society in Manhattan, collapsed and died Monday on a subway platform in lower Manhattan. He was 76 years old and lived in Manhattan. Milton Adler, for many years a criminal trial lawyer on the s
Samuel Sloan, executive secretary of the American Friends of Wingate, a physical-education school in Israel, died of a heart attack yesterday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 73 years old. Samuel Sloan, executive secretary of the American Friends of Wingate, a physical-educatio
Ben-Zion, a poet, writer, painter and sculptor, died after a heart attack Friday in his home in the Chelsea section of Manhattan. He was 90 years old. Ben-Zion, a poet, writer, painter and sculptor, died after a heart attack Friday in his home in the Chelsea section of Manhatt
Bernhardt J. Hurwood, the author of 64 books on a wide variety of subjects, died of cancer Friday at Beth Israel Medical Center. He was 60 years old and lived in Manhattan. Bernhardt J. Hurwood, the author of 64 books on a wide variety of subjects, died of cancer Friday at Bet
Ivan R. Powell, a designer and illustrator who taught at the Parsons School of Design, died of cancer Saturday at New York University Hospital. He was 50 years old and lived in Manhattan. Ivan R. Powell, a designer and illustrator who taught at the Parsons School of Design, di
Dr. Vincent Ellis McKelvey, an earth scientist who spent 46 years with the United States Geological Survey, seven of them as its director, died of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, spinal paralysis, Friday at his home in St. Cloud, Fla. He was 70 years old. Dr. Vincent Ellis McKe
Allen Porter, for many years a member of the staff of the Museum of Modern Art, died last Wednesday at a nursing home in Rhinebeck, N.Y. He was 84 years old and lived in Barrytown, N.Y. Allen Porter, for many years a member of the staff of the Museum of Modern Art, died last W
Daniel Sargent, an educator, poet and author noted for his biography of Sir Thomas More, died Saturday at Leonard Morse Hospital here. He was 96 years old. Daniel Sargent, an educator, poet and author noted for his biography of Sir Thomas More, died Saturday at Leonard Morse H
Dr. Donald W. MacKinnon, a psychology professor who formulated controversial theories on creativity and helped select Secret Service agents in World War II, died last Tuesday in a hospital here. He was 84 years old. Dr. Donald W. MacKinnon, a psychology professor who formulate
Rudolf F. Kallir, the former vice president of the American Mannex Corporation and a noted antiquarian specializing in musical manuscripts, died Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 91 years old.  Mr. Kallir's career began in Vienna, where he studied law, and continued in the steel
Robert Lee Henry, a tax lawyer and founder of the National Hemophilia Foundation, died Saturday of Alzheimer's disease at Wellington Regional Medical Center in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 80 years old and lived in Wellington, Fla., and Locust Valley, L.I. Robert Lee Henry, a 
Allison Danzig, a sportswriter for The New York Times for 45 years and an authority on tennis, football and rowing, died yesterday of a heart attack at Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 88 years old and lived in Ramsey, N.J. Allison Danzig, a sportswriter for The New Y
Antone Atallah, a former Foreign Minister and a Member of Parliament, died today, his family said. He was 89 years old. Mr. Atallah was a member of Jordan's lower house of Parliament for the Jerusalem district and later as a member of the Senate, the upper house. Mr. Atallah, born in 
Dow O. Walling, a retired cartoonist who created the comic strip ''Skeets,'' died Friday at the New Rochelle Hospital Medical Center. He was 84 years old and lived in Pelham Manor. Dow O. Walling, a retired cartoonist who created the comic strip ''Skeets,'' died Friday at the 
Guerin Benedict Carmody, a former Chief Judge of the Connecticut Assembly of Trial Justices, died Monday at Waterbury (Conn.) Hospital. He was 76 years old and lived in Southbury, Conn. Guerin Benedict Carmody, a former Chief Judge of the Connecticut Assembly of Trial Justices
Howard J. Lichtenstein, a specialist in labor-relations law and a partner of the Manhattan law firm of Proskauer Rose Goetz & Mendelsohn, died Sunday at the Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 80 years old and lived in Manhattan. Howard J. Lichtenstein, a specialist in labor-re
Lester A. Burcham, former chairman of the board and chief executive officer of the F. W. Woolworth Company, died Saturday at the North Carolina Baptist Hospital in Winston-Salem, N.C. He was 73 years old and lived in Delray Beach, Fla. Lester A. Burcham, former chairman of the
Frank M. Katz, a New York philanthropist and chairman of the board of the sales promotion and advertising company that bears his name, died Sunday at the Manhattan home of his daughter, Berelle Samuel, with whom he lived. He was 95 years old. Frank M. Katz, a New York philanth
Galo Plaza Lasso, a former President of Ecuador who later served as Secretary General of the Organization of American States, died yesterday in Quito. He was 80 years old. Galo Plaza Lasso, a former President of Ecuador who later served as Secretary General of the Organization
Jerome H. Teitelbaum, a New York real-estate executive, died Monday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 73 years old and lived in Manhattan. Jerome H. Teitelbaum, a New York real-estate executive, died Monday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 73 years old and lived in Manhattan.      
Jack Nadel, a social worker and former executive director of the 92d Street Y, died in his sleep Monday at his home in Surfside, Fla. He was 94 years old. Jack Nadel, a social worker and former executive director of the 92d Street Y, died in his sleep Monday at his home in Sur
Robert Warren, a song writer and music arranger, died of pancreatic cancer Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 71 years old. Robert Warren, a song writer and music arranger, died of pancreatic cancer Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 71 years old. Mr. Warren 
Archbishop Valerian Trifa , who was deported from the United States in 1984 after being accused of being a Nazi supporter who incited attacks on Jews and other civilians in World War II, died yesterday in a hospital in Cascais, Portugal. He was 72 years old and recently suffered a hea
William G. Rabe, a former director of the Manufacturers Trust Company, died Jan. 17 at his home in Palm Beach, Fla., after a long illness. He was 90 years old. William G. Rabe, a former director of the Manufacturers Trust Company, died Jan. 17 at his home in Palm Beach, Fla., 
Carlo Dassola, an Italian author whose work was considered a forerunner of the French ''new novel,'' died here today of complications following a heart attack, his family said. He was 69 years old. Carlo Dassola, an Italian author whose work was considered a forerunner of the 
Charles Fredrick Wolcott, a music composer and arranger who worked with Walt Disney Studios and is credited with bringing rock-and-roll to the screen, died Wednesday. He was 80 years old. Charles Fredrick Wolcott, a music composer and arranger who worked with Walt Disney Studi
Dr. Otto Nathan, an economist who served as executor and co-trustee of the estate of Albert Einstein, died of heart failure Tuesday at Van Etten Hospital in the Bronx. He was 93 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Otto Nathan, an economist who served as executor and co-trust
Francis Bello, a retired associate editor of Scientific American magazine, died of leukemia Tuesday at the Stanford Medical Center in Stanford, Calif. He was 69 years old and lived in Menlo Park, Calif. Francis Bello, a retired associate editor of Scientific American magazine,
Vincent R. Impellitteri, an immigrant cobbler's son who defied the Democratic machine of Tammany Hall and became Mayor of New York from 1950 to 1953, died of heart failure yesterday at Bridgeport (Conn.) Hospital. He was 86 years old. Vincent R. Impellitteri, an immigrant cobb
Maj. Gen. Hugh M. Milton 2d, a former Under Secretary of the Army,died Tuesday at William Beaumont Army Medical Center in El Paso, Tex. He was 89 years old. Maj. Gen. Hugh M. Milton 2d, a former Under Secretary of the Army,died Tuesday at William Beaumont Army Medical Center i
Pedro W. Wygodzinsky, curator of entomology at the American Museum of Natural History, died of Parkinson's disease Tuesday at a nursing home in Middletown, N.Y. He was 70 years old. Pedro W. Wygodzinsky, curator of entomology at the American Museum of Natural History, died of 
Samuel G. Fuqua, who received in the Medal of Honor for heroism at Pearl Harbor and whose story of that day helped build the U.S.S. Arizona Memorial there, died Tuesday. He was 87 years old. Mr. Fuqua, who retired from the Navy in 1953, was a lieutenant commander aboard the battleship
Herbert Menzel, a sociology professor at New York University, died of a heart attack Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 66 years old. Herbert Menzel, a sociology professor at New York University, died of a heart attack Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 66 years ol
Phillip J. DiNatale, the chief investigator in the Boston Strangler case, died Sunday at the home of a daughter here. He was 67 years old. Mr. DiNatale was a Boston detective in 1963 when he was assigned to head the investigation of the killings of 13 women in the Boston area from 196
