 H. Gerard Bissinger II, a former president of the municipal bond firm Lebenthal & Company, died on Oct. 25 at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 75 and lived on the Upper West Side. The cause was leukemia, his family said. A former advertising account executive, Mr. Bissinger made
 John Springer, a press agent who represented a galaxy of stars (including Marilyn Monroe, Judy Garland, Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton) and closely guarded their secrets, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 85 and lived in Manhattan. In a newspaper headline he wa
 Paul C. Warnke, who was the highest Pentagon official in the Johnson administration to question openly the aims and conduct of the Vietnam War and later, as President Jimmy Carter's chief arms-control negotiator, sought to trim American and Soviet nuclear stockpiles, died yesterday at his h
 Robert Z. Rosenthal, the former president of Martin's, a family-owned chain of women's apparel stores in Brooklyn, Long Island and New Jersey, died on Saturday at a hospital in Sarasota, Fla. He was 87 and moved to Sarasota from Sands Point, N.Y., in 1986. He was president of the ap
 William E. Sauro, a photographer for The New York Times and other news organizations, died on Saturday in Mission Viejo, Calif. He was 78 and lived in Laguna Woods, Calif., and earlier in Kendall Park, N.J. He died of Alzheimer's disease in an assisted living center, his family said
 Dr. Jeffrey M. Isner, who wedded  gene therapy and cardiovascular medicine to create promising treatments for heart and circulatory disease, died on Wednesday at his home in Weston, Mass., near Boston. He was 53. The cause was a heart attack, said St. Elizabeth's Medical Center in B
 John P. Roberts, a promoter of the Woodstock Music and Art Fair in 1969 and a partner in its revivals in the 90's, died on Saturday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 56 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Rona Roberts. Mr. Roberts, a busin
 Juan Bosch, a prolific writer who in December 1962 became the first freely elected president of the Dominican Republic in 38 years -- only to be toppled by a military coup after seven months in office -- died yesterday in the capital, Santo Domingo. He was 92. At its start, Mr. Bosc
 Dr. Ernest R. Hilgard, a highly acclaimed experimental psychologist and a pioneer in the scientific study of hypnosis, died on Oct. 22 in Palo Alto, Calif., where he was a professor emeritus at Stanford University. He was 97. Dr. Hilgard was also known as a primary author of a class
 Rabbi Eliezer Menachem Schach, a leader of the strictly Orthodox Jews in Israel who wielded powerful influence over the country's politics for more than two decades, died today in Sheba Medical Center in Tel Aviv. He was 103. A fiery scholar who combined Talmudic erudition with shre
 Sandy Lehmann-Haupt, one of the Merry Pranksters on the novelist Ken Kesey's boisterously psychedelic bus, which helped define the hippie way of life as it emerged in the 1960's, died on Oct. 28 at a hospital in Callicoon Center, N.Y., near his home. He was 59 and had succeeded in leaving b
 David B. Blanchard, the chairman of the Clifford Management Group, a financial advisory concern that he founded, and president of Clifford Asset Management, another investment advisory concern, died on Monday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 58 and lived on
 Frank Craighead, who with his identical twin, John, performed a 12-year study of grizzly bears in and around Yellowstone National Park that was credited with helping save the species from extinction in the lower 48 states, died on Oct. 21 at a nursing home in Jackson, Wyo. He was 85.       
 J. P. Miller, an Emmy Award-winning writer from television's golden age of live drama, who was best known for the teleplays ''The Days of Wine and Roses'' and ''The People Next Door,'' died on Thursday at the Hunterdon Medical Center in Flemington, N.J. He was 81. The cause was pneu
 Neil Tillotson, an industrialist and resort owner who became a celebrity every four years as the first person to vote in the presidential primaries and the election of the president, died Oct. 17 at a hospital in Colebrook, N.H. He was 102. ''I saw Teddy Roosevelt, I was probably 16
 Spike Robinson, a lyrical jazz saxophonist who had careers in both music and engineering, died last Monday at his home in his adopted hometown of Writtle in central Essex, England. He was 71. His death was reported Friday in The London Daily Telegraph, which said that after settling
 Former Representative Edward P. Boland, a steady, self-effacing lawmaker whose name became central to the debates over the Reagan administration's policies in Central America, died on Sunday. He was 90. Mr. Boland, a native of Springfield, Mass., spent 36 years in Congress represent
 Jack Manning, a veteran photographer for The New York Times whose subjects ranged from gritty city streets to high culture, died on Friday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 80, had been retired for one year and lived in Pearl River, N.Y. His wife, Marie, said he died from com
 Angelo Ippolito, a painter and one of the founders of the Tanager Gallery, an artist-run space that was part of the New York School of Abstract Expressionists in the 1950's, died on Oct. 29 in Johnson City, N.Y., near Binghamton, where he was a professor emeritus of art at the State Univers
 Edward Padula, a Broadway producer with a keen eye for talent, who won a Tony Award in 1961 for ''Bye Bye Birdie,'' died on Thursday at Southampton Hospital, near his home in Bridgehampton, N.Y. He was 85. The cause was a heart attack, said Milton S. Teicher, his lawyer. The
 Paul R. Screvane, who began serving New York City by driving a garbage truck and progressed to one of its loftiest political positions, president of the City Council, died on Sunday at his home in Wyomissing, Pa. He was 87. His daughter, Sara-Ann Steber, said he never sold his home 
 Ernst Gombrich, an author of panoramic erudition and probably the world's best-known art historian thanks to his best-selling ''Story of Art,'' died on Saturday in London, where he had lived since moving from his native Vienna in 1936. He was 92. ''The Story of Art'' sold mi
 B. K. Nehru, an Indian diplomat who nearly succeeded Dag Hammarskjold as United Nations secretary general and quarreled with his cousin Prime Minister Indira Gandhi over Kashmir, died on Oct. 31 in Kasauli in northern India. He was 92. In 1958, Mr. Nehru helped create the Aid India 
 Earle K. Moore, an American communications lawyer who secured a landmark civil rights court ruling that obliged broadcasting stations to serve the interests of their audiences, died of cancer Saturday in Manhattan. He was 79. In 1964, at the height of the civil rights movement, Mr. 
 Elmer Balaban, the last surviving brother of seven in a family that dominated the movie theater business in Chicago and the Midwest, died on Nov. 2 in Chicago, where he lived. He was 92. Mr. Balaban began in the business before theaters sold popcorn (they offered only candy), but fo
 Fred J. Maroon, a meticulous photographer whose work caught the eye of Richard M. Nixon, who invited him into the White House where he wound up photographing the decline and fall of a president, died Monday at his home in Washington. He was 77. His wife, Suzy, said the cause was mul
 Giovanni Leone, a former president of Italy noted for his cheerful bonhomie and successful negotiations as a senator to bring about his country's first divorce law, died yesterday at his home outside Rome. He was 93. Widely recognized as both a scholar and a political peacemaker in 
 Dr. Lawrence D. Jacobs, a neurologist who helped harness the power of a human protein to fight multiple sclerosis, died on Nov. 2 at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York. He was 63. The cause was cancer, his family said. Dr. Jacobs was an early explorer of 
 Dr. Warren Elliott Henry, a scientist who in a long career in government and academia made significant contributions to the fields of radar technology, physical properties of materials and physics education, died on Oct. 31 in Washington. He was 92 and lived in Washington, where he 
 Ken Kesey, the Pied Piper of the psychedelic era, who was best known as the author of the novel ''One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest,'' died yesterday in a hospital in Eugene, Ore., said his wife, Faye. He was 66 and lived in Pleasant Hill, Ore. The cause was complications after surger
 Chaim Stern, one of Reform Judaism's most prolific liturgists -- whose influence extended even to President Bill Clinton, who quoted a passage on contrition from one of Rabbi Stern's books during the president's sex scandal -- died of a malignant brain tumor at a Miami hospital on Monday. H
 Anthony Shaffer, the British playwright whose jokey but chilling thriller ''Sleuth'' ran for more than 2,300 performances in London's West End and more than 2,000 on Broadway, died in London on Tuesday. He was 75. A deadly tale of bluff and double bluff between an aging, vain detect
 John Simon White, a mainstay of the Vienna-born triumvirate that steered the New York City Opera to its berth as an important repertory company and proving ground for young American singers, died last Tuesday in Sarasota, Fla., where he had moved from Manhattan in July. He was 91. M
 Dr. David Moody Hopkins, an arctic geologist and leading authority on the land link that allowed ice age hunters to pursue their mammoth and mastodon prey from Siberia to Alaska nearly 12,000 years ago, died on Nov. 2 at his home in Menlo Park, Calif. He was 79. The cause was kidney
 Ray Kelly, who fulfilled the fantasy of every American boy when he became Babe Ruth's mascot and sat in the Yankees' dugout in a pinstripe uniform when Murderers' Row ruled the baseball world, died Sunday at his home in Valley Cottage, N.Y. He was 83. The cause was a heart attack, h
 Tom Dardis, a biographer whose work was enriched by his own experiences, died on Nov. 2 at New York-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. The cause was respiratory failure, said his wife, Ellen Ervin. Mr. Dardis's book
 Albert Hague, a popular composer whose work included his Tony award-winning score for the 1959 musical ''Redhead,'' the much-recorded standard ''Young and Foolish'' and the soundtrack for last year's film ''How the Grinch Stole Christmas,'' died on Monday at a hospital in Marina del Rey, Ca
 Cornelius (Dutch) Warmerdam, the greatest pole-vaulter in the era before fiberglass poles changed the sport and the first man to clear 15 feet, died Tuesday in Fresno, Calif. He was 86. He had Alzheimer's disease, The Associated Press reported. Before there was a Sergei Bubk
 Dr. George Alfred Kiersch, a geologist who used his expertise to find the proper sites for large-scale projects like dams and power plants and then built them, died on Oct. 19 in Tucson, Ariz., where he lived in retirement. He was 83. The cause was congestive heart failure, his fami
 Michael DeMarco, who was the longest-serving city councilman in New York when he resigned in 1997 to become a New York State Supreme Court judge, died on Sunday at a hospital in the Bronx. He was 65. He died of liver cancer, his family said. Mr. DeMarco, a Democrat who was s
 Nathan M. Pusey, who led Harvard University through tremendous growth and liberalization only to be swept away in a storm over Vietnam-era protests, died yesterday at New York Weill Cornell Center in Manhattan. He was 94 and lived on the East Side. In Dr. Pusey's tenure as Harvard's
 David W. Brumbaugh, a former Time Inc. executive who played a role in the adoption of ZIP codes, died on Saturday at a hospital in Glen Cove, N.Y. He was 93 and lived in Glen Head, N.Y. Mr. Brumbaugh joined Time Inc. in 1933 and became executive vice president, treasurer and
 Bob Eckhardt, who survived for 14 years in Congress as a liberal Democrat from Houston despite a constituency that was considerably to his right politically, died on Tuesday in Austin, Tex., his hometown. He was 88. His family said Mr. Eckhardt had suffered a series of strokes.     
 Frank Messer, the straight arrow announcer of Yankee games for 18 seasons, died Tuesday at his home in Deerfield Beach, Fla. He was 76. He died of heart problems, but also had lupus, said Rebecca Messer, his former wife. Messer replaced Joe Garagiola on the Yankee television
 Dr. Franz P. Hoskins, a Navy officer in World War II who took part in a storied appendectomy aboard a submarine years before he went to medical school, died on Nov. 8 in Kingsport, Tenn. He was 86. On Sept. 11, 1942, at a depth of 120 feet in the China Sea, a pharmacist's mate and a
 Maxwell White Hunter, a rocket engineer, project manager and visionary of the space age, died on Nov. 10 at Stanford Hospital in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 79 and lived in San Carlos, Calif. The cause was complications from  a fall, his family said. Working at the Douglas Airc
 Panama Francis, a drummer who played for dancers through the glory years of swing in high-profile bands  like Lucky Millinder's, Cab Calloway's and Slim Gaillard's, played on countless rhythm-and-blues and rock 'n' roll sessions and  became a standard-bearing swing-nostalgia musician, died 
 Albert C. Todd, a professor of European languages and literatures who edited and translated poetry by his friend the Russian poet Yevgeny Yevtushenko, interpreted for him and once physically defended him from attackers, died on Nov. 9 in a Queens nursing home. He was 74 and lived in Flushin
 Melvin Burkhart, a legendary sideshow performer who billed himself as the Human Blockhead and proved it by hammering nails and spikes up his nose in front of millions of Americans in thousands of places -- from the 1939 World's Fair to countless dusty midways to the Coney Island boardwalk t
 Satguru Sivaya Subramuniya swami, a native Californian who sought spiritual meaning in India as a young man and became the spiritual leader of Sri Lankan Hindus, died on Tuesday at his ashram on the Hawaiian island of Kauai. He was 74. Satguru Sivaya Subramuniya swami (soo-bra-MOON-
 Tommy Flanagan, a jazz pianist who with a classic trio set a high standard for elegance in mainstream postwar jazz, died Friday night at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 71 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was an arterial aneurysm, said his wife, Diane Flanagan. Mr. Flanagan
 Harrison A. Williams Jr., the Democratic senator from New Jersey who used his considerable power to further the interests of labor and education before being convicted of bribery and conspiracy in the Abscam scandal, died on Saturday. He was 81 and lived in Bedminster. Dr. Bruce Min
 Augustus C. Long, a former chief executive of Texaco, who guided the company's international expansion in the 1950's and 60's, died last Thursday at his home in North, Va. He was 97. A tough-talking graduate of the Naval Academy, Mr. Long joined Texaco in 1930, when it was known as 
 Billy Vessels, the University of Oklahoma running back who won the 1952 Heisman Trophy in an era when Sooner teams coached by Bud Wilkinson dominated college football, died last Saturday at his home in Coral Gables, Fla. He was 70. The cause was congestive heart failure, said his wi
 Jerry Jerome, a tenor saxophone player who was a featured soloist with the Glenn Miller, Benny Goodman, Red Norvo and Artie Shaw orchestras in the Big Band era, died at his home here on Saturday. He was 89. Mr. Jerome later became a successful musical director and conductor on radio
 Andrew McNally III, a former president of the map maker Rand McNally & Company, died on Thursday at his home in Chicago. He was 92. He was a great-grandson of another Andrew McNally, who was a co-founder of the company in the mid-1800's. The company started out printing tick
 John A. Babarovic, an architect who worked on major airport projects as well as residential architecture, died on Nov. 2 in London, where he lived. He was 69. The cause was complications after heart surgery, his family said. Mr. Babarovic was director of long-range planning 
 John W. Nason, who while president of Swarthmore College during World War II helped get more than 3,000 American students of Japanese descent out of detention camps and place them in institutes of higher learning, died on Saturday in Kennett Square, Pa. He was 96. Mr. Nason was pres
 A memorial service has been scheduled for Deputy Chief Raymond M. Downey, who commanded the rescue units of the New York Fire Department and oversaw the search-and-rescue work after the Oklahoma City bombing in 1995. Mr. Downey, who was 63 and lived in Deer Park, N.Y., died in the collapse 
 Robert H. Heilbrunn, an investor and philanthropist, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 93 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He began investing during the Depression and prospered through value investing, which is investing in undervalued securi
 Byron Sanders, an actor in television soaps and the model for Salvador Dali's ''Crucifixion,'' died on Nov. 12 at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 76 and lived in Manhattan. He was born Reginald Byron Sanders in Charlotte, N.C., and served in Europe during World War II. After the war
 Dr. Vladimir Pasechnik, a senior Soviet biologist whose defection in 1989 alerted Western intelligence to the scope of Moscow's clandestine efforts to adapt germs and viruses for military use, died on Wednesday in Wiltshire, England. He was 64 and lived in a nearby village. The caus
 Gardner McKay, who became famous as the star of the 1960's television series ''Adventures in Paradise'' but abandoned the spotlight to move to the Amazon jungle, died at his home in Honolulu on Wednesday. He was 69 and had been fighting prostate cancer while trying to finish his memoirs.   
 Dr. Edwin H. Colbert, an authority on paleontology who helped popularize the study of dinosaurs through his work as a curator at the American Museum of Natural History in New York and as a prolific writer of dinosaur books for a lay audience, died on Nov. 15 at his home in Flagstaff, Ariz. 
 Irving Crane, whose gentlemanly, cautious approach to the game of pool resulted in the nickname the Deacon and seven world championships, at least one in each decade starting in the 1940's, died on Nov. 17 at a nursing home in Rochester. He was 88. His daughter, Sandra DeLucia, said
 Jean-Louis Palladin, a fearless and passionate cook who helped to free French cuisine in the United States from a hidebound orthodoxy while influencing a generation of chefs and food lovers, died yesterday in McLean, Va. He was 55. The cause of death was lung cancer, said Ann Brody,
 Milton Shaw, who oversaw the design and construction of the reactors that powered the first nuclear submarine and the first nuclear aircraft carrier, died on Saturday at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 80. The cause was cancer, his family said. A protégé of Adm. Hyman 
 Bo Belinsky, whose pitching prowess as a rookie with the Los Angeles Angels catapulted him to the life of a Hollywood playboy and the fleeting glitter of a 1960's celebrity, died Friday at his home in Las Vegas. He was 64. The cause was apparently a heart attack, The Associated Pres
 Norman Granz, the gruff impresario who in 1944 created Jazz at the Philharmonic, a touring group that took the jazz idiom out of the smoky, noisy bars and dance halls and tucked it into sumptuous concert halls where it flourished, died on Thursday in Geneva, where he had lived, mostly in re
 Sol Forman, who sometimes ate a steak or two a day at Peter Luger, the steakhouse across the street from his Brooklyn metalware factory, and then rescued the restaurant from oblivion by buying it at auction and owning it for a half century, died on Thursday at Maimonides Hospital in Brookly
 Paul Hume, whose opinions on music raised him to an almost statesmanlike stature in the minds and hearts of Washington's concertgoers, died on Monday at a nursing home in Baltimore. He was 85 and was suffering from pneumonia. Mr. Hume was The Washington Post's music critic for 35 ye
 Ralph Burns, an arranger and composer who rose to prominence in the big band era and later won awards for his work on Broadway and in Hollywood, died on Wednesday in Los Angeles. He was 79. The cause was pneumonia and complications from a stroke, his business manager said. F
 W. Glenn Campbell, an economist and friend of President Ronald Reagan who built the Hoover Institution at Stanford University into one of the world's most influential conservative research groups, died on Saturday at his home in Los Altos Hills, Calif. He was 77. The cause was a hea
 Dr. Francis D. Moore, a giant of 20th-century surgery who made profound contributions to the understanding of how bodily fluids and chemicals change during surgery, the development of organ transplantation and the care of critically ill surgical patients, died on Saturday at his home in Wes
 Joe Modise, a guerrilla fighter who led the armed struggle against apartheid and became South Africa's first black defense minister, died in his home near Pretoria on Monday night, government officials said Tuesday. He was 72 and had cancer, said Snuki Zikalala, a family spokesman. 
 Michael E. Hoffman, the longtime director of the Aperture Foundation, a nonprofit publisher of fine-art photography books and Aperture magazine, died on Friday in Manhattan. He was 59 and lived in New York City and Shekomeko, N.Y. The cause was complications from meningitis, said hi
 Irwin Weiner, a sports agent whose clients included Julius Erving and Walt Frazier, died last Saturday at a nursing home in Rye Brook, N.Y. He was 69. The cause was complications related to pneumonia, his family said. Mr. Weiner was a high school dropout who channeled his en
 Jamie Shannon, the chef who succeeded Emeril Lagasse at Commander's Palace in New Orleans and brought its kitchen national acclaim, died on Nov. 23 at the M. D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston. He was 40 and was being treated at the center. In his 17 years at Commander's Palace, t
 Dr. John M. Dawson, a leading authority on plasma physics, died on Nov. 17 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 71. The cause of death has not been determined, said Dr. Warren Mori, a professor of physics and electrical engineering at the University of California at Los Angeles, who w
