 Ed McCurdy, a singer and songwriter who was a leading folk music figure in the 1950's, died on March 23. He was 81 and lived in Halifax, Nova Scotia. At the height of the Depression, Mr. McCurdy left his family farm in Willow Hill, Pa., at 18 to become a gospel singer in Manhattan. 
 Dr. Gary Allan Polis, a zoologist, an ecologist and one of the world's foremost experts on the dreaded scorpion, drowned on Monday in a boat accident off Mexico in the Sea of Cortez. He was 53 and lived in Davis, Calif. Dr. Polis was one of four researchers who died when their 22-fo
 Donald Townsend, who founded the Tad's Steakhouse chain in 1957 on the theory that a T-bone, baked potato, garlic bread and a tossed salad could be profitably sold for $1.09, died March 25 in a Reno hospital. He was 91. Little matter that the meat might be cardboard thin, with clump
 Kenneth N. French, an actor who performed with many dance companies, died March 22 at his home in Manhattan. He was 73. The cause was cancer, said Joyce Herring, a friend and colleague. Born in Albion, Okla., Mr. French came to New York in the mid-1950's but continued to per
 Gregory B. Shuker, a documentary filmmaker and pioneer in the techniques of cinema verite, died on Wednesday at the Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 67 and lived in Bronxville, N.Y. The cause was cancer, said Nancy Shuker, his former wife. Mr. Shuker was among the first
 Hans Gustav Guterbock, a retired University of Chicago professor who was one of the world's foremost scholars of the languages of the ancient Middle East, died on Wednesday at his home in Chicago. He was 91. Dr. Guterbock was the university's Tiffany and Margaret Blake distinguished
 Harwell Webb Proffitt, a retired executive of the Proffitt's Department Store chain, which became Saks Inc. after it bought Saks Fifth Avenue, died on March 24 at his home in Maryville, Tenn. He was 82. Mr. Proffitt, whose father, D. W. Proffitt, opened his first store in Maryville 
 Wayne McAllister, a West Coast architect who some critics say elevated commercial structures like the drive-in restaurant and the theme resort to art forms, died on March 22 in Arcadia, Calif. He was 92. Mr. McAllister injured his head in a fall on March 3 near his home in Pasadena 
 Charles Elson, a prolific designer who devised the sets and lighting for  scores of productions on Broadway and in London, died on Thursday at his home in Armonk, N.Y. He was 90. A graduate of the Yale School of Drama, Mr. Elson received his first Broadway credit in July 1945 with a
 Charles Fastov, the first director of probation for New York City, died on March 25 at his home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 90. He was appointed director of probation by Mayor Abraham Beame in 1974 and served until 1976, when he retired. Before 1974, Mr. Fastov was a chi
 Dr. Joe Webb Peoples, a geologist who was key in creating Dinosaur State Park in Rocky Hill, Conn., died on March 21 at a hospital in Middletown, Conn. He was 92 and lived in Chester, Conn. Dr. Peoples was head of both the geology department of Wesleyan University in Middletown, Con
 John Robert Starr, who as managing editor of a Little Rock, Ark., newspaper led it to circulation victory over its once overpowering rival -- partly through the force of his 365-days-a-year column -- died of a heart attack just outside Del Norte, Colo., on Saturday. He was 72. Mr. S
 Dr. Milton Brutten, a clinical psychologist and an early leader in the field of special education who also collected contemporary art, died on March 16 at an assisted-living center in Devon, Pa. He was 77 and lived in Philadelphia. The cause was complications from a stroke, said his
 Bertram M. Beck, a longtime leader in social work and for 10 years the head of the Henry Street Settlement in New York City, died Monday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 82, lived on Roosevelt Island and had a vacation home on Fire Island. The cause was
 Byron Goldman, a garment industry executive who was better known as a theatrical producer, died last Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 78. The cause was cancer, said a friend, Sidney Kraines. Most recently Mr. Goldman was a co-producer of the Broadway production of ''C
 Robert J. Casey, a prominent tax lawyer in New York and Washington, died on Friday at a nursing home in Washington. He was 81. Mr. Casey was a partner in several law firms: Finley, Kumble, Underberg, Wagner & Casey in New York; Shea, Gould, Climenko & Casey in New York, now known as
 Sir Robert Sainsbury, patron of the arts and a son of the dynasty that turned a collection of grocery stores into one of Britain's biggest supermarket chains, died on Sunday, the company said. He was 93. His lifetime spanned an innovative and troubled century, whose changes in taste
 William R. Hamilton, a Democratic political consultant and pollster who worked in more than 400 election campaigns, including four for president, died on Saturday at a hospital in Fernandina Beach, Fla. He was 61 and lived on nearby Amelia Island. The cause was lung cancer, said Dav
 Martin Fried, a theater director who was for many years a close associate of Lee Strasberg at the Actors Studio, died on March 28 at his home in Manhattan. He was 62. The cause was an aneurysm, said Lena Tabori, his former wife. During his diverse career, Mr. Fried worked on
 The Rev. Robert Ross Johnson, a leading clergyman in Queens for nearly four decades and a former chaplain for the New York City Department of Correction, died on March 29 at a hospital in Atlanta. He was 79 and had moved to Atlanta in 1991. He suffered a long illness, his family sai
 Solomon Barkin, a retired labor economist and professor emeritus at the University of Massachusetts who wrote prodigiously about working people, died on March 29 at his home in Leverett, Mass. He was 92. Professor Barkin spent 25 years in the labor movement, from 1937 to 1963, as di
 Tommaso Buscetta, the first important Italian mob leader to break the Mafia oath of silence and whose testimony helped convict hundreds of Mafia leaders in Italy and the United States, died of cancer on Sunday, his Italian lawyer, Luigi Liggotti, said. He was 71 and lived at an undisclosed 
 Habib Bourguiba, who was president of Tunisia from 1957 to 1987 after leading the country to independence from France, died yesterday. He was 96 years old and lived in Monastir in eastern Tunisia. Mr. Bourguiba was a spectacularly durable Arab leader. He was also relatively moderate
 Lee Petty, a champion stock car racer in the 1950's who was the father of the sport's greatest driver, Richard Petty, died Wednesday in Moses Cone Hospital in Greensboro, N.C. Petty, who was 86, had been hospitalized for several weeks after surgery for a stomach aneurysm. Lee Petty 
 Arthur C. Ruge, who invented a fingernail-sized gauge that helped the United States win World War II and revolutionized the way things are weighed and tested for stress, died Monday at his home in Lexington, Mass., according to his daughter, Claire Bertucci. He was 94. Mr. Ruge (pro
 Carl L. Sitter, a former colonel in the United States Marines who won the Medal of Honor for bravery and valiant leadership during 36 hours of hellish hand-to-hand fighting in Korea, died on April 4 at a hospital in Richmond, Va. He was 77. Colonel Sitter's gallantry at the risk of 
 George T. Piercy, a former senior vice president of Exxon Corporation who, in the 1980's, was chairman of the Educational Broadcasting Corporation of New York, now known as Channel 13/WNET, died March 30 at his home in Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla. He was 84. He had been in declining heal
 Robert Gage, an influential art director with the DDB Worldwide advertising agency and a director of well-known television ads, died Tuesday at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived in Pound Ridge, N.Y. The cause was a staphylococcus infection, said his son, Tom. Mr. 
 Enrique Espinoza, an artist who with Loretta Hines Howard created elaborate Christmas trees displayed annually at the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the White House, died March 21 at the Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan. A resident of Manhattan, he was 87. Mr. Espinoza began his associa
 Terence McKenna, who so playfully and persistently pressed his message that psychedelic drugs are mankind's salvation that Timothy Leary himself christened him ''the Timothy Leary of the 90's,'' died on Monday at a friend's home in San Rafael, Calif. He was 53 and lived on the South Kona Co
 A. Frank Reel, who was a government-appointed defense counsel in a crucial Japanese war-crimes trial after World War II and later denounced the proceedings as a sham, died in his sleep on Monday night or early Tuesday at his assisted-living home in Norfolk, Va. He was 92 and had lived in Ta
 Sy Weintraub, the film producer who in the 1950's breathed new life into Tarzan's flagging celluloid career, died Tuesday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 76. The cause was pancreatic cancer,  Reuters reported. Under the tutelage of Mr. Weintraub, who bought the r
 Reginald Laubin, who performed  dances of American Plains Indians in the 1930's, 40's and 50's, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Urbana, Ill. He was 96 and lived in Urbana and in Moose, Wyo. Neither Mr. Laubin nor his wife, Gladys, with whom he performed, were Indian, but they stu
 William C. Stokoe Jr., an iconoclastic linguistics professor whose championing of sign language helped change the way deaf people are educated around the world, died on April 4 at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 80. Dr. Stokoe was credited with winning recognition of American Si
 James Marston Fitch, an architect whose writings and teaching helped transform historic preservation from a dilettante's pastime into a vigorous, broadly based cultural movement, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 90. Less interested in where Washington slept than in ho
 Larry Linville, whose comically mendacious character Maj. Frank Burns made other Army doctors' lives miserable for the first five seasons of the long-running television hit ''M*A*S*H,'' died on Monday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 60 and lived in Manhattan. 
 Robert W. Komer, a point man in the United States' star-crossed campaign to win hearts and minds in Vietnam, died on Sunday after a stroke. He was 78 and lived in Arlington, Va. During the war and after, Mr. Komer was known as Blowtorch Bob, a name given to him by Henry Cabot Lodge,
 James Vorenberg, a professor and former dean of Harvard Law School who played pivotal roles in watershed legal events including the Watergate investigation, died yesterday at a hospital in Boston. He was 72. The cause was cardiac arrest, his wife, Elizabeth, said. Professor Vorenber
 John B. Hurford, an investment adviser, philanthropist and foreign affairs expert, died on April 3 at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 62. The cause was a pulmonary embolism, said a colleague, Lynn Barry. Mr. Hurford, who lived in Manhattan, was a managing director of Credit 
 William M. Kaula, who used early satellites to create the first truly global maps of Earth's shape and structure, died on April 1 at his home in Los Angeles. He was an emeritus professor of geophysics at the University of California at Los Angeles, and was 73. The cause was cancer, 
 Andre Deutsch, a Hungarian emigre who moved to Britain before World War II and parlayed his love of literature into an independent publishing house that bore his name, died on Tuesday at a hospital here. He was 82. Setting up business on a shoestring at a time when publishing was no
 Frank Jewett Mather III, a scientist who developed the first tagging program for large open- ocean fish, died on March 27 in Falmouth, Mass. He was 89. Mr. Mather's passion for fishing lured him from a career as a naval architect into the field of fisheries research. He started work
 Giorgio Bassani, the author of the classic modern novel ''The Garden of the Finzi-Continis,'' died today in the San Camillo hospital in Rome. He was 84. Mr. Bassani's final years were darkened by a bitter dispute between his lawyers and his estranged wife and children, who in 1998 h
 Howard Simon, a playwright whose first major New York production opened on Sunday night, died on Wednesday at New York Methodist Hospital in Brooklyn. He was 37 and lived in the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn. The cause was septic shock brought on by streptococcus meningitis
 W. Bruce Lincoln, a historian known for his gripping books about Russians and their history, died on Sunday at Kishwaukee Community Hospital in DeKalb, Ill. He was 61 and lived in DeKalb. He had cancer, Northern Illinois University in DeKalb said in announcing his death. He had taug
 Alan Betrock, whose love of rock 'n' roll led to a pioneering career as a critic, editor, publisher, archivist and record producer, died on Sunday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 49 and lived in Brooklyn. The cause was cancer, said Marilyn Laverty, his former wife. 
 Albert Turner, a civil rights leader and adviser to the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., died on Thursday in Selma, Ala. He was 64. Mr. Turner's heart stopped while he was being prepared for an operation to stop abdominal bleeding, said his brother, Robert. Mr. Turner helped
 Gary Bellow, a Harvard Law School professor who was a pioneer in creating programs to meet the legal needs of the poor, died on Thursday at a hospital in Cambridge, Mass. He was 64 and lived in Boston. The cause of death was complications from a heart transplant, said Dr. Charles J.
 James Frederick Green, a State Department veteran who was an authority on human rights, died on Monday at his home in Silver Spring, Md. He was 89. Dr. Green, who had a doctorate in international relations from Yale, spent part of his State Department career, from 1946 to 1954, focu
 Jerry D. Mead, a wine writer who long crusaded against neo-Prohibitionism, died on Wednesday at his home in Carson City, Nev. He was 61. The cause was lymphoma and heart disease, said Edwin J. Schwartz of San Francisco, a friend. Mr. Mead, who described himself as The Wine C
 Edmund Engelman, the clandestine photographer who let the world glimpse the famous couch of Dr. Sigmund Freud (without a consultation fee), died on Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 92 and had homes in Manhattan and East Hampton, N.Y. Mr. Engelman, a native of Vien
 Edward Gorey, whose eerie black-and-white cross-hatched drawings of hapless children and Victorian ministers charmed and haunted readers, died yesterday in Hyannis, Mass. He was 75. Mr. Gorey, an artist and writer who lived in Yarmouth Port, Mass., suffered a heart attack on Wednesd
 Dr. Edward B. C. Keefer, a surgeon who set up the first transplant bank for human blood vessels and was the first to fit a horse with an artificial leg, died on April 3 at his home in Brookville, N.Y. He was 84. In the 1950's, establishing a forerunner of today's organ banks, Dr. Ke
 Gerald Garvey, who wrote extensively on the inner workings of government as a professor of politics at Princeton University, died on April 9 at Princeton Medical Center. He was 64 and lived in Princeton. The cause was cancer, his family said. Dr. Garvey focused on American p
 Robert Emmett, an actor and writer for the stage and screen whose credits include the 1960's satirical television news show ''That Was the Week That Was,'' died April 8 at St. Vincents Hospital and Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Emmett died after 
 Edward Gorey, the artist and author who was a grand master of the comic macabre and delighted generations of readers with his spidery drawings and stories of hapless children, swooning maidens, throbblefooted specters, threatening topiary and weird, mysterious events on eerie Victorian land
 John deKoven Alsop, a veteran of Connecticut Republican politics, a former gubernatorial candidate and a retired insurance company president, died April 6 at a health care center in Old Saybrook, Conn. He was 84 and lived in Old Lyme, where he had moved from Avon, his birthplace, in 1986.  
 Justice W. Shepro, a lawyer and businessman who used his real estate fortune to transform himself into one of the nation's leading collectors of antique clocks, died in an automobile accident near Chicago on March 30. He was 74 and lived in Roscoe, Ill. Mr. Shepro's odyssey in time 
 Myles La Grange Mace, a professor emeritus at the Harvard Graduate School of Business who taught and wrote extensively about management techniques and corporate governance, died on March 24 at a nursing home in Natick, Mass. He was 88 and resided in Dover, Mass. Dr. Mace, a native o
 Adm. Willard J. Smith, who was commandant of the Coast Guard from 1966 to 1970, died on April 1 at a nursing home in Atlantic Beach, Fla. He was 89. During his tenure, Admiral Smith oversaw the service's transition from the jurisdiction of the Treasury Department to the Department o
 Abram Chayes, a professor of international law at Harvard for more than 40 years and a top State Department official in the Kennedy administration, died on Sunday at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. He was 77. His family said he had pancreatic cancer. Mr. Chayes was o
 Daniel H. Thomas, a senior United States district judge who grappled with desegregation in southern Alabama and made a national reputation presiding over admiralty cases, died on Thursday at his home in Mobile, Ala. He was 93. President Harry S. Truman appointed him in 1951 to the b
 Eberhard Bethge, a German Protestant theologian who helped to make his countryman Dietrich Bonhoeffer one of the most influential Protestant theologians of the mid-1900's, died on March 18 in the Bethge home in Wachtberg, a suburb of Bonn. He was 90. Pastor Bonhoeffer was involved i
 John J. Barry, a veteran trial and appellate lawyer, died on April 9 at his home in Manhattan. He was 60 and also lived in Sparta, N.J. His friend Alan C. Marcus said Mr. Barry had cancer. He was a partner in the law firm of Tompkins, McGuire, Wachenfeld & Barry, based in Ne
 Rabbi Israel Schorr, the rabbi of Congregation Beth El-Young Israel in Brooklyn, died on March 31 at Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn. He was 94 and lived in Borough Park. Rabbi Schorr was an Orthodox Jewish leader and noted Talmudic scholar and was also learned in secular fiel
 John Paul Blewett, a nuclear physicist who played a significant role in the development of particle accelerators, died at a hospital in Chapel Hill, N.C., on April 7. He was 89. A Chapel Hill resident, he had lived in Manhattan and New Suffolk, N.Y. Dr. Blewett retired in 1978 as a 
 Joseph J. Christian, chairman of the New York City Housing Authority, the country's largest public housing authority, from 1973 to 1985, died on Thursday at his home in DeBary, Fla. He was 84 and had moved to Florida in 1986. At the time Mr. Christian announced his retirement as cha
 Nicolas Bongard, a former Tiffany & Company executive and a business partner of Jean Schlumberger, a jewelry designer, died on April 7 at his Manhattan home. He was 91. Mr. Schlumberger, whose jewelry was expensive and fanciful, once said the ''transmission between artist and crafts
 Dr. Sherwood Larned Washburn, an anthropologist and pioneering primatologist who linked the evolution of human behavior traits to the actions of apes and monkeys, died on Sunday at a hospital near his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 88. Dr. Washburn was an emeritus professor of anth
 George E. Taylor, a historian and political scientist who specialized in Asia, died on Friday at his home in Seattle. He was 94. Professor Taylor ''was one of the founders of modern China studies in the United States,'' said Andrew J. Nathan, a professor of political science at Colu
 Prince Hassan Aziz Hassan, a cousin of the last king of Egypt and a great-grandson of the Khedive Ismail, who built modern Cairo and the Suez Canal, died here on Sunday. He was 76. One of the few surviving members of the Mohammed Ali dynasty, Prince Hassan lived in obscurity in the 
 Alfred R. Wentworth, who as a Chase Manhattan executive in 1972 opened the first office of an American bank in the Soviet Union in more than 50 years, died on April 13 in Sarasota, Fla. He was 80. Mr. Wentworth joined the international department of the Chase National Bank in 1946. 
 De Coursey Fales Jr., an archaeologist and professor of history whose in-depth study of a single Greek vase shed light on the art and mythology of the ancient world, died on April 12 at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 82. The cause was a heart attack, said his brother Haliburton
 Dr. Ernst Knobil, a physiologist whose studies of the hormonal system led to a better understanding of the female reproductive function and improved treatment of infertility, died on April 13 at the Texas Medical Center in Houston. He was 73 and lived in Houston. The cause was pancr
 Fred McMorrow, an author and a retired editor and Long Island section columnist for The New York Times, died yesterday in a nursing home in Walhalla, S.C. He was 74. His wife, Jeanne Baker McMorrow, said he had recently had a stroke after a long struggle with Alzheimer's disease.   
 Samuel V. Merrick, a Washington lawyer who in 1984 directed the United States to its best showing in Olympic yachting, died Monday at his home in Medford, N.J. He was 86 and had competed in one-design sailboat races since 1926. In 1977, after working 35 years in labor and Congressio
 Sergei Zalygin, a writer and the chief editor of the literary journal Novy Mir who in the late 1980's published long-banned works by Boris Pasternak, Joseph Brodsky and Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn, died on Wednesday at a hospital here. He was 86. Mr. Zalygin edited Novy Mir from 1986 to 
 George S. Moore, a banker who led the overseas expansion of what became Citibank and steered the Metropolitan Opera through turbulent financial times, died yesterday at his home in Sotograde, Spain. He was 95. Mr. Moore, who eventually rose to become chairman of First National City 
 Ray Vicker, an author and former foreign correspondent for The Wall Street Journal, died on Wednesday at a nursing center in Tucson. He was 82 and had lived in Tucson for the last 10 years. The cause was a stroke, said his wife, Margaret. Mr. Vicker was the London bureau chi
 Todd Webb, a photographer who documented the everyday life and architecture of New York, Paris and the American West, died last Saturday at Central Maine Medical Center in Lewiston. He was 94 and lived in Auburn, Me. Solid and dignified, with a sharp focus and full tonal range, Mr. 
 Alexander H. Cohen, one of the last old-time independent theatrical producers, who produced 101 shows on Broadway and in London's West End and originated the national Tony Awards telecast in 1967, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 79. The cause was respirato
 Alfred Peck O'Hara, a Manhattan lawyer, former federal prosecutor and past president of the Bacardi Corporation, died April 15 at his home in Patterson, his birthplace in Putnam County, N.Y. He was 80. At the time of his death, Mr. O'Hara, known as Pete, was of counsel to the Manhat
 Undaunted by the fact that he was doing the impossible, Edward J. Logue roared up and down the East Coast from the 1950's to the 1980's like an urban renewal whirlwind, building and rebuilding precincts on which others had given up hope: downtown New Haven, Scollay Square in Boston, Rooseve
 Arthur Morton, a composer who worked in films and television, died on April 15 at his home in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 91. Mr. Morton composed and orchestrated background music for numerous films and television shows during his 65-year career in Hollywood. His first film score wa
 Fritz W. Alexander II, the first black judge to serve a full term on  New York State's highest court and a deputy mayor under Mayor David N. Dinkins, died Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital at 73. The cause was cancer, his family said. From his days as a Supreme Court justice in Manhat
 John W. Rollins Sr., a Georgia farm boy who went on to found or co-found seven companies taken public on the New York Stock Exchange and served as the lieutenant governor of Delaware in the 1950's, died on April 4 at his office in Fairfax, Del. He was 83. A major contributor to Repu
 Paul Bao-Jen Chu, a former international labor official and retired professor at Rutgers University, died on April 6 at a hospital in Port Charlotte, Fla., where he had moved from Bethesda, Md., four years ago. He was 85. Dr. Chu also formerly lived in Geneva and Bellemead, 
 Philip C. Keenan, whose work in the spectral classification of stars helped astronomers understand the chemical evolution of galaxies, died on Thursday at a hospital in Columbus, Ohio. He was 92. Dr. Keenan (pronounced kee-NAN) was emeritus professor of astronomy at Ohio State Unive
 Ronald Lockley, a naturalist and prolific author whose four-year study of rabbits inspired Richard Adams's 1972 book ''Watership Down,'' died on April 12 in Auckland, New Zealand. He was 96. Mr. Lockley wrote about 60 books, two-thirds of them about islands, one of his driving passi
 Fritz W. Alexander II, the first black judge to serve a full term on  New York State's highest court and a deputy mayor under Mayor David N. Dinkins, died Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital at 73. The cause was cancer, his family said. From his days as a Supreme Court justice in Manhat
 Al Purdy, a lanky writer whose brash, freewheeling ways masked a love for language that produced 33 volumes of poetry, died on Friday at his winter home in Sidney, on Vancouver Island. He was 81. Arguing about Yeats and tinkering with lines of verse to the end, Mr. Purdy died on a b
 Andre Jarrot, a hero of the French Resistance against the occupying Germans in World War II who became a cabinet minister in the 1970's, died on Friday at his home in the Burgundy region of France. He was 90. His death was announced by the office of President Jacques Chirac, who dec
 Erle Cocke Jr., a decorated World War II soldier who was the national commander of the American Legion in 1950 and 1951, died on Sunday at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 78. The cause was cancer. Mr. Cocke, at age 29, became the youngest person to command the American L
 HE has 800 unsolved murder cases crammed into scrapbooks that line the walls of his offices, his laboratory, even his bathroom, like so much incriminating wallpaper: no wonder the man Gov. John G. Rowland of Connecticut calls the most famous detective since Sherlock Holmes -- the man whose 
 David Merrick, the producer whose gift for creating Broadway hits was matched only by his genius for attracting publicity and making enemies, died yesterday in his sleep at St. George's Rest Home in London. He was 88. For a quarter-century that ended with his last blockbuster, the m
 Frank Rothman, a trial lawyer who represented the National Football League in some of its most important cases and who once ran the MGM movie studio, died Tuesday in a hospital here from complications following surgery, his family said. He was 73 and had continued to practice law until earl
 Nicolaus Koni, a sculptor noted for his busts of prominent figures,  among them Marian Anderson, James V. Forrestal and David Ben-Gurion, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Riviera Beach, Fla. He was 89. Mr. Koni, a native of Hungary, immigrated in the late 1920's to Austria, where he
 Herbert Wechsler, the Columbia Law School professor whose work on criminal and constitutional law helped shape the nation's legal system over half a century, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 90. Mr. Wechsler's achievements were remarkably varied, ranging from the c
 Dr. Martin H. Stein, a psychoanalyst who was president of the New York Psychoanalytic Society in the 1960's, died on April 19 at New York Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 87 and lived on the Upper East Side. Dr. Stein retired about a year ago from his private psychoanalyti
 Robert L. Zion, a landscape architect who designed some of New York's most cherished oases, died on Tuesday in a traffic accident in Imlaystown, N.J., where he worked. Mr. Zion was 79 and lived in nearby Cream Ridge. The Associated Press reported that the accident occurred when Mr. 
 Elmer Gertz, a leading Chicago lawyer who successfully represented the convicted thrill killer Nathan Leopold, the sexually explicit author  Henry Miller and Jack Ruby, assassin of Lee Harvey Oswald, died on Thursday at an acute-care center in Chicago. He was 93. Mr. Gertz, who was 
 Gregory Gillespie, an artist whose probing, urgent, often bizarre paintings occupied a singular place in the history of late-20th-century representation, died on Wednesday at his home in Belchertown, Mass, an apparent suicide. He was 64. Mr. Gillespie's wife, Peggy, found him hangin
 Toon Hermans, a beloved Dutch stage performer who was as comfortable in poetry, song and folk philosophy as in making people ache with laughter, died last Saturday in a hospital in Utrecht, the Netherlands. He was 83. Mr. Hermans, who spent his life in the spotlight, was buried priv
 David Spanier, a British journalist who loved poker and wrote extensively and amusingly about it in a series of popular books, died on April 18 after collapsing while playing cards at a London casino. He was 67 and lived in London. The cause was a massive stroke, said his eldest son
 Jack Best, one of the last survivors of the audacious group of British prisoners in World War II who constructed a glider under the noses of their Nazi captors in order to fly from the roof of their prison to freedom, died April 22 in a hospital in Herefordshire, England. He was 87.        
 Robert L. B. Tobin, a Texas art collector and patron who built one of the most important theater design collections in the country, died on Wednesday at a hospital in San Antonio. He was 66. The cause was complications from cancer, said his friend and lawyer, Bruce Bugg. He said tha
