 George W. S. Trow, a writer and media critic known for his biting lamentations over what he saw as the twilight of culture in late-20th-century America, was found dead on Nov. 24 in his apartment in Naples, Italy. He was 63 and had lived in Naples for the last few years. The Italian
 Roy Newell, a painter of geometric abstracts and one of the original members of the American Abstract Expressionists, died on Nov. 22 in Manhattan. He was 92. The cause was cancer, said Anne Cohen, his wife. Mr. Newell was a vivid colorist, dedicating himself to creating clo
 Don Butterfield, a tuba player whose virtuosity helped to popularize the use of his instrument in jazz, died on Monday in Cedar Grove, N.J. He was 83 and lived in Clifton. The cause was a stroke-related illness, said his stepson, Brian Nalepka. A classically trained tubist, 
 Elliot Welles, a Holocaust survivor who spent the years after World War II as a tireless hunter of Nazis, starting with the man who murdered his mother, died on Tuesday at his home in the Bronx. He was 79. The apparent cause was a heart attack, his son, Mark, said. For more 
 Leonard Freed, a prominent photojournalist and member of the Magnum Photography Collective who was known primarily for his in-depth coverage of African-Americans in the era of the civil rights movement, died on Wednesday at his home in Garrison, N.Y. He was 77. The cause was recent 
 Tom Fexas, the innovative motor yacht designer whose famous Midnight Lace design inspired a shift to retro Italian styling for modern luxury boats, died Wednesday in Stuart, Fla. He was 65. His death was confirmed by his niece Elisa Casas. The cause was not yet known; he had been ho
 Ray T. Parfet Jr., the last member of the Upjohn family to lead its namesake pharmaceutical company in Kalamazoo, Mich., where he also started a minor-league hockey franchise, died Nov. 27 in Kalamazoo. He was 84. The cause was acute respiratory distress syndrome, said his son, Dona
 Robert Volpe, a painter with a flowing mustache who gained street smarts chasing drug smugglers as a police officer and then put those skills to use as the New York City Police Department's one-man art-theft squad in the 1970s, died on Nov. 28 at his home on Staten Island. He was 63.       
 Peter Blake, an architect, critic and former editor of Architectural Forum who was known for his lively critiques of Modernism and his friendships with artists, died yesterday at a hospice near his home in Branford, Conn. He was 86. The cause was complications from a respiratory inf
 Arthur Shimkin, a Grammy Award-winning producer of children's records, including Hans Christian Andersen fairy tales and ''Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer'' -- sung, appropriately enough, by Jimmy Durante (the ''Schnozzola'') -- died Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 84. The ca
 David Bronstein, a Ukrainian-born grandmaster who played bold and intuitive chess, wrote one of the classics in chess literature and came within one draw of becoming world champion, died on Tuesday in Minsk, Belarus. He was 82. His death was reported by the World Chess Federation. N
 Kenneth M. Taylor, an Army Air Corps pilot who joined with a fellow flier to become the first two American pilots aloft during the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor and the first to shoot down Japanese planes, died Nov. 25 in Tucson. He was 86. The cause was a strangulated hernia, sai
 George B. Tindall, a noted historian of the American South, died on Saturday at his home in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 85. The cause was complications of diabetes, his daughter, Blair Tindall, said. At his death, Professor Tindall was Kenan professor emeritus of history at the
 Johnnie B. Hunt, who built a nationwide freight-hauling empire after calculating that driving a single transport truck was rather less profitable than owning and managing thousands of them, died Thursday. He was 79. His company announced his death. A family spokesman said Mr. Hunt h
 Jay McShann, a jazz pianist known for his hard-driving, bluesy style but probably best known for giving Charlie Parker his first big break, died Thursday in Kansas City, Mo. He was 90, according to most sources (including Mr. McShann himself and his family), but 97 according to some others.
 Robert Rosenblum, an influential and irreverent art historian and museum curator known for his research on subjects ranging from Picasso to images of dogs, died on Wednesday at his home in Greenwich Village. He was 79. He died from complications of colon cancer, said his wife, the a
 Van Smith, who was admiringly called both an artist and a terrorist for the costumes and makeup he designed for the films of John Waters, died on Tuesday at his home in Marianna, Fla. He was 61. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. An early exponent of the trash ae
 Sid Raymond, a jowly, jocular Edward G. Robinson look-alike who fell in love with show business in the Catskills, then did everything from beer commercials to Broadway to giving voice to a very big duck, died on Dec. 1 in Aventura, Fla. He was 97. His family said he died from compli
 Gen. Augusto Pinochet Ugarte, the brutal dictator who repressed and reshaped Chile for nearly two decades and became a notorious symbol of human rights abuse and corruption, died yesterday at the Military Hospital of Santiago. He was 91. Dr. Juan Ignacio Vergara, head of the medical
 Leonard M. Greene, an inventor who developed an instrument to warn pilots when their planes were about to stall and who sold more than half a million of the devices over six decades, died Nov. 30. He was 88 and lived in Mamaroneck, N.Y. The cause was complications from lung cancer, 
 Mario Llerena, a Cuban intellectual who was an early representative of Fidel Castro in the United States but who broke with him before he took power because of Mr. Castro's shift toward Communism, died Sunday in Miami. He was 93. His daughter, Stella Portada, said yesterday that he 
 Ralph Gomberg, the former principal oboist who held sway at the Boston Symphony while his brother Harold did the same, on the same instrument, at the New York Philharmonic, died on Saturday. He was 85 and lived in Concord, Mass. His death, at a hospice in Whelan, Mass., resulted fro
 J. Keith Mann, a Stanford University law professor who negotiated labor disputes for three presidents and wrote a report for the United States Supreme Court that led to the protection of Alaskan barrier islands from oil drilling, died Nov. 27 in Stanford, Calif. He was 82. The cause
 Kenny Davern, a radically traditional jazz clarinetist and soprano saxophonist whose liquid tones linked him to the classical sound of New Orleans but who could also play free jazz, died on Tuesday at his home in Sandia Park, N.M. He was 71. The cause was a heart attack, his wife, E
 Paul Arizin, the Philadelphia Warriors' Hall of Fame forward of the 1950s and early '60s, and one of pro basketball's first jump-shot specialists, died Tuesday night at his home in suburban Philadelphia. He was 78. Arizin died in his sleep, said Villanova University, where he was an
 Peter Boyle, who left the life of a monk to study acting and went on to become one of the most successful character actors of his time in films like ''Joe,'' ''Young Frankenstein'' and ''Monster's Ball,'' then capped his career as the curmudgeonly father on the hit sitcom ''Everybody Loves 
 Raymond P. Shafer, the former Pennsylvania governor who oversaw a revamping of the state's Constitution and led a drug commission for President Richard M. Nixon that recommended decriminalizing marijuana, died Tuesday in his hometown, Meadville, Pa. He was 89. The cause was complica
 Ahmet Ertegun, the music magnate who founded Atlantic Records and shaped the careers of John Coltrane, Ray Charles, the Rolling Stones, Led Zeppelin and many others, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 83. A spokesman for Atlantic Records said the death was the result of a brain inj
 Alan F. Shugart, an engineer and entrepreneur whose career defined the modern computer disk drive industry, died Tuesday in Monterey, Calif. He was 76. The cause was complications after a recent heart operation, said his son-in-law Mark Peterson. Beginning his career as an I
 Angelo R. Cali, whose family-owned real estate development company merged with the Mack Company in 1997 to create one of the country's largest real estate investment trusts, died last Friday in Montclair, N.J., his hometown. He was 91. The death was confirmed by his brother, John, a
 Lamar Hunt, whose father's Texas oil fortune gave him the springboard to become a prime founder of the American Football League and who gave the Super Bowl its name, died Wednesday night in Dallas. He was 74. The cause was complications of prostate cancer, according to a spokesman for the N
 Bernard Kleiman, general counsel to the United Steelworkers of America for 32 years and a top adviser to five of the union's presidents during decades of industry turmoil, died on Wednesday in Pittsburgh. He was 78. Union officials said Mr. Kleiman died of a heart attack, days after
 Cadet Hand, a marine biologist and authority on the crabs, snails and intertidal creatures of California's Central Coast, where he helped found a flourishing marine laboratory on Bodega Bay in the 1960s, died Nov. 29 at his home in Salmon Creek, Calif. He was 86. The cause was cance
 J. A. Riggs Jr., a former executive vice president at The New York Times who oversaw the newspaper's conversion from hot-lead type to modern offset printing, died Monday in Evanston, Ill. He was 73 and lived in Tucson, Ariz. The cause was a heart attack, said his daughter, Karen Are
 Dr. Robert W. Wissler, a cardiovascular researcher who, with others, discovered that a combination of smoking and high cholesterol in young men could damage arteries earlier and more significantly than previously known, died on Nov. 28 in Chicago. He was 89. The cause was respirator
 Tom Gregory, a television personality best remembered in New York for his catchphrase at the beginning of the 10 p.m. WNEW newscast -- ''It's 10 p.m. Do you know where your children are?'' -- died here on Monday. He was 79. His death, of heart disease, was confirmed by his daughter 
 William Z. Salcer, who survived a Nazi concentration camp and later made a fortune by inventing things in the United States, including a plastic lace tablecloth, died on Dec. 6 in Manhattan. He was 82. The cause was leukemia, his granddaughter Donna Z. Rubenstone said. Mr. S
 Allan Stone, a New York dealer who combined a broad expertise in Abstract Expressionism with a zeal for junk sculpture and realist painting and was perhaps as well known for amassing art as for selling it, died on Friday at his home in Purchase, N.Y. He was 74. He died in his sleep,
 C. Peter McColough, who sharply increased the size and prominence of the Xerox Corporation as its chief executive until his retirement in 1982, died on Dec. 13 in Rye Brook, N.Y. He was 86. His son, Andrew McColough, said the cause was cardiac arrest after a long illness. Du
 Henry Pearson, an artist whose use of undulating parallel lines in both painting and sculpture made him a pioneer of Op Art, died on Dec. 3 in Manhattan. He was 92 and had lived in Manhattan for many years. His death was confirmed by his brother, Stanley. Inspired by his wor
 Herbert Gursky, a leading space researcher for the Navy who, in the 1960s, guided investigations that discovered the sources of X-rays arriving from outside the solar system, died Dec. 1 in Fairfax, Va. He was 76. The cause was stomach cancer, his family said. Until recently
 Robert N. Anthony, a professor at the Harvard Business School and an influential author who helped make the numbers-crunching of accountants more comprehensible to business executives, died Dec. 1 at his home in Hanover, N.H. He was 90. The death was confirmed by his son, Robert Jr.
 Samuel Devons, a physicist and historian of science at Columbia University who combined research in nuclear physics with a career-long effort to make science accessible to general audiences, died on Dec. 6 in Manhattan. He was 92 and lived in Irvington, N.Y. The cause was congestive
 Chris Hayward, an Emmy-winning writer for television whose work was once banned in Canada because of the painful inadequacies of one of its leading men -- the righteous, square-jawed and stupendously slow-witted Mountie Dudley Do-Right -- died on Nov. 20 at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif.
 Joseph Barbera, an innovator of animation who teamed with William Hanna to give generations of young television viewers a pantheon of beloved characters, including Tom and Jerry, Yogi Bear, Huckleberry Hound and the Flintstones, died yesterday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 95. 
 Larry Sherry, whose brilliant relief pitching in his rookie season with the Los Angeles Dodgers propelled them to all four of their victories over the Chicago White Sox in the 1959 World Series, died Sunday in Mission Viejo, Calif. He was 71. The cause was cancer, the Dodgers said. 
 Larry Zox, a painter whose exuberant geometric abstractions made a strong contribution to the Color Field movement of the 1960s and '70s, died on Saturday. He was 69 and lived in Colchester, Conn. The cause was cancer, said his daughter, Melinda. In Mr. Zox's signature works
 Sheldon Fox, who was part of the founding triumvirate of Kohn Pedersen Fox, one of the country's most successful architectural firms, died on Saturday at his home in Fairfield, Conn. He was 76 and had until recently been a longtime resident of Stamford, Conn. The cause was complicat
 Sheik Abdul-Amir al-Jamri, Bahrain's most prominent Shiite Muslim cleric and an opposition leader during civil unrest in the 1990s, died Monday at his home in Manama, his son Mansour al-Jamri said. He was 67. The cause was multiple organ failures and a heart attack, Mr. Jamri said. 
 Cecil Travis, a Washington Senators infielder who was one of baseball's leading hitters of the 1930s and early '40s, died Saturday in Riverdale, Ga. He was 93. The cause was congestive heart failure, said his son Mike. A left-handed line-drive hitter, Travis batted over .300
 Daniel Pinkham, a prolific composer, organist and fixture on the Boston classical music scene who taught at the New England Conservatory for nearly a half-century, died Monday at the home of friends in Natick, Mass., the conservatory said. He was 83 and lived in Cambridge, Mass. The
 Jerry Berns, a proprietor of the ''21'' Club for a half-century and the last link to the restaurant's past as Manhattan's most celebrated speakeasy, died yesterday in Rancho Mirage, Calif. He was 99 and had homes in Rancho Mirage, Manhattan and Southampton, N.Y. His daughter, Cecily
 Martin Conroy, an advertising executive who without recourse to glossy paper or fancy graphics created one of the most enduring ad campaigns of all time, died on Tuesday in Branford, Conn. He was 84 and lived in Madison, Conn., and Captiva, Fla. The cause was complications of lung c
 Scotty Schulhofer, a Hall of Fame thoroughbred trainer who twice saddled Belmont Stakes winners, died Dec. 14 in Aventura, Fla. He was 80. The cause was cancer, the New York Racing Association said. Schulhofer trained many top horses, but perhaps none had a greater impact on
 Andrew Spielman, an entomologist at Harvard whose studies of mosquitoes, ticks and other insects shed light on the diseases that parasites carry to humans, most notably malaria, the West Nile virus and Lyme disease, died on Wednesday in Boston. He was 76. His family confirmed the de
 George Latshaw, an internationally renowned puppeteer who for half a century breathed life into a diverse array of inanimate objects, and in so doing helped gain acceptance for puppetry as a legitimate art form in the United States, died on Tuesday in Temple Terrace, Fla. He was 83.        
 The Rev. Robert S. Bilheimer, a Presbyterian minister with an ecumenical vision who organized religious leaders against the war in Vietnam and apartheid in South Africa, died on Dec. 17 in Canandaigua, N.Y. He was 89 and lived in Canandaigua. The cause was complications of a hip fra
 Bertram A. Powers, the longtime head of the New York printers' union, who led one of the nation's longest and most debilitating newspaper strikes and years later negotiated a contract that guaranteed his members jobs for life as computers eclipsed their craft, died Saturday in Washington. H
 Herman Klurfeld, a ghostwriter for the legendary columnist Walter Winchell for almost three decades, died last Monday in Boca Raton, Fla., where he had lived for many years. He was 90. The cause was a heart arrhythmia, said his son, James. Mr. Klurfeld started writing up to 
 Frank Stanton, a central figure in the development of television broadcasting in the United States and the industry's most articulate and persuasive spokesman during his nearly three decades as president of CBS, died Sunday afternoon at his home in Boston, a longtime friend, Elizabeth Allis
 James Brown, the singer, songwriter, bandleader and dancer who indelibly transformed 20th-century music, died early yesterday in Atlanta. He was 73 and lived in Beech Island, S.C., across the Savannah River from Augusta, Ga. Mr. Brown died of congestive heart failure after being hos
 Frank Tremaine, a retired senior vice president at United Press International who as a young reporter filed what is believed to have been the first eyewitness account of the bombing of Pearl Harbor, died in Savannah, Ga., on Dec. 7, the 65th anniversary of the attack. He was 92. The
 Former President Gerald R. Ford, who was thrust into the presidency in 1974 in the wake of the Watergate scandal but who lost his own bid for election after pardoning President Richard M. Nixon, has died, according to a statement issued late last night by his wife, Betty Ford. He wa
 William H. Booth, a former New York City judge who challenged racial discrimination in employment, housing, education and other fields as a civil rights leader and as chairman of the city's Commission on Human Rights in the late 1960s, died on Dec. 12 at his home in Kissimmee, Fla. He was 8
 Braguinha, the Brazilian composer of Carnival songs whose humorously ironic melodies influenced generations of Brazilian musicians, died on Sunday in Rio de Janeiro. He was 99. Braguinha died after suffering a generalized infection, according to a statement from Dr. João Luiz Ferre
 Henry M. Beachell, a plant breeder whose cultivation of a remarkably fecund new rice plant led to greatly increased yields of the crop in developing countries of Asia, died on Dec. 13 at his home in Pearland, Tex. He was 100. Mr. Beachell's death was confirmed by the International R
 Former President Gerald R. Ford, who gently led the United States out of the tumultuous Watergate era but lost his own bid for election after pardoning former President Richard M. Nixon, died at 6:45 p.m. Tuesday at his home in Rancho Mirage, Calif. He was 93, making him the oldest 
 Edwin David Edwards, whose accusations of improper currency transactions at Citibank mired it in scandal, died Dec. 21 at a hospice care center near his home in Wichita Falls, Tex. He was 62. The cause was cancer, his brother, Mark Edwards said. Mr. Edwards, known as David, 
 John Bishop, a playwright, screenwriter and longtime member of Circle Repertory Company in New York, died on Dec. 20 in Bad Heilbrunn, Germany. He was 77 and lived in Encino, Calif. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Lisa Maurer Bishop. ''The Musical Comedy Murders of 1940
 Fernand Nault, one of Canada's foremost dance figures, who followed a 21-year career at American Ballet Theater with the artistic leadership of Les Grands Ballets Canadiens and with prolific choreography that ranged from ''The Nutcracker'' to ''Tommy,'' his 1970 hit rock ballet, died in Mon
 Rudolf de Crignis, a New York abstract painter, died last Saturday in Manhattan. He was 58. The cause was an inoperable brain tumor, diagnosed in November, said his partner, Michael Paoletta. Mr. de Crignis was born in Winterthur, Switzerland, and studied at the Form + Farbe
 The hanging of Saddam Hussein ended the life of one of the most brutal tyrants in recent history and negated the fiction that he himself maintained even as the gallows loomed -- that he remained president of Iraq despite being toppled by the United States military and that his power and his
 Robert Boehm, the chairman of the Center for Constitutional Rights, a Manhattan-based nonprofit group most recently in the forefront of an effort to secure legal rights for military prisoners held by the United States at Guantánamo and elsewhere, died on Tuesday at his home on the Upper We
