Arnold Bank, chairman of the department of neurological and sensory sciences at Albert Einstein Medical Center in Philadelphia, died of leukemia Sunday at the center. He was 58 years old and lived in Elkins Park, Pa. Arnold Bank, chairman of the department of neurological and 
Edgar Kaufmann Jr., an architecture historian, curator and philanthropist who preserved his family's celebrated Frank Lloyd Wright-designed house, Fallingwater, as a public museum, died of leukemia yesterday at New York Hospital. He was 79 years old and lived in Manhattan. Edg
The Rev. Kenneth R. May, retired bishop of the Western Pennsylvania-West Virginia Synod of the former Lutheran Church in America, died of complications from an aortic aneurysm Friday. He was 65 years old and lived in McCandless, Pa. The Rev. Kenneth R. May, retired bishop of t
Leon Leonidoff, the producer of several hundred extravaganzas at the Radio City Music Hall from the day it opened until his retirement 42 years later, died Saturday in North Palm Beach, Fla. He was 95 years old. Leon Leonidoff, the producer of several hundred extravaganzas at 
Zhou Yang, a leading literary arbiter in the Communist Party for nearly 60 years and, in his later years, a champion of artistic freedom, died today. He was 81 years old. Zhou Yang, a leading literary arbiter in the Communist Party for nearly 60 years and, in his later years, 
Bettis Alston Garside, a relief executive and educator, died yesterday in the Jewish Home and Hospital for the Aged in Manhattan after a long illness. He was 94 years old and lived in Manhattan. Bettis Alston Garside, a relief executive and educator, died yesterday in the Jewi
Don Heffner, a major league second baseman for 11 years and the manager of the Cincinnati Reds for half of the 1966 season, died today at Huntington Memorial Hospital. He was 78 years old. Don Heffner, a major league second baseman for 11 years and the manager of the Cincinnat
Dr. Kurt Lange, a professor emeritus of pediatrics and medicine at the New York Medical College and a consulting physician at Lenox Hill Hospital, died of heart disease Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82 years old. Dr. Kurt Lange, a professor emeritus of pediatrics a
Dr. Robert S. Hotchkiss, a retired New York urologist, died of pneumonia Monday at Danbury (Conn.) Hospital. He was 86 years old and lived in New Fairfield, Conn. Dr. Robert S. Hotchkiss, a retired New York urologist, died of pneumonia Monday at Danbury (Conn.) Hospital. He wa
George A. Vaughn Jr., a World War I air ace who went on to become a founder of the New York Air National Guard and the College of Aeronautics, died of cancer Monday at New York Hospital. He was 92 years old and lived on Staten Island. George A. Vaughn Jr., a World War I air ac
James B. Ramsey Jr., a financial consultant to the Small Business Administration in New York, died of a respiratory illness Saturday at the Carteret General Hospital in Morehead City, N.C., near his vacation home. He was 66 years and also lived in Wyckoff, N.J. James B. Ramsey
John C. Franklin, a retired executive with the General Dynamics Corporation and a number of other corporations, died Monday at his home in Winter Park, Fla., after a brief illness. He was 84 years old. John C. Franklin, a retired executive with the General Dynamics Corporation
John Ogdon, a British pianist best known for his championship of complex late-Romantic and 20th-century scores, died yesterday at Charing Cross Hospital in London, where he was admitted Monday with bronchial pneumonia. He was 52 years old. John Ogdon, a British pianist best kn
John W. Guilfoyle, a retired executive of the International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation, died of cancer Sunday at the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 67 years old and had homes in Manhattan and Manchester, Vt. John W. Guilfoyle, a retired executive of 
Jules B. Singer, a former president of the Federal Advertising Agency and a former vice president of the Grey Advertising Agency, died of respiratory failure Saturday night at his home in Manhattan. He was 89 years old. Jules B. Singer, a former president of the Federal Advert
Michael Harrington, co-chairman of the Democratic Socialists of America and author of ''The Other America,'' which helped to encourage the Federal Government's War on Poverty, died of cancer of the esophagus Monday at his home in Larchmont, N.Y. He was 61 years old. Michael Ha
Otto Heller, founder and chairman of Lace of France, a Manhattan-based lace manufacturing and importing company, died last Thursday at United Hospital in Port Chester, N.Y., after a long illness. He was 76 years old and lived in Rye Brook, N.Y. Otto Heller, founder and chairma
Edward E. Benedict, former chairman of Norda Inc., a privately owned flavor and fragrance company until its acquisition by Unilever United States in 1985, died Tuesday at Harkness Pavilion, Columbia Presbyterian Hospital, after a brief illness. He was 78 years old and lived in Manhatt
Eugene Vanderpool, an American archeologist who believed he had identified the site of the prison where Socrates was executed in 399 B.C., died of Parkinson's disease Tuesday in the Evangelismos Hospital in Athens. He was 83 years old and had lived in Athens for most of the time since
Hyman Hirsch, a New York City teacher who founded the Institute for Retired Professionals at the New School, died Monday at St. Luke's Hospital. He was 84 years old and lived in Manhattan. Hyman Hirsch, a New York City teacher who founded the Institute for Retired Professional
Irwin Joffe, former president of Dawson International USA Inc., an American subsidiary of a British knitwear manufacturer, died of a heart attack on July 17 in London. He was 47 years old and lived in Manhattan. Irwin Joffe, former president of Dawson International USA Inc., a
John Hirsch, a director who staged plays at Lincoln Center and at the Stratford Festival of Canada, where he was artistic director for five years, died of AIDS on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Toronto. He was 59 years old and lived in Toronto. John Hirsch, a director who 
John H. Tiedemann, senior vice president and general sales manager at ABC-TV, died of a heart attack Tuesday at South Nassau Community Hospital in Oceanside, L.I., after major surgery. He was 55 years old and lived in Baldwin, L.I. John H. Tiedemann, senior vice president and 
Kenneth N. Sherwood, a former Harlem businessman and member of the New York State Athletic Commission who moved to the island of Jamaica in 1976, died last Friday of injuries received during a robbery of his home in Kingston. He was 58 years old. Kenneth N. Sherwood, a former 
Robert W. Sparks, a retired executive vice president of the Bowery Savings Bank, died of pneumonia Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 95 years old. Robert W. Sparks, a retired executive vice president of the Bowery Savings Bank, died of pneumonia Tuesday at his home in M
Sam Shapolsky, a builder of apartment houses on the East Side of Manhattan, died of bladder cancer on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 77 years old. Sam Shapolsky, a builder of apartment houses on the East Side of Manhattan, died of bladder cancer on Sunday at his home 
Walter A. Davidson, who served as cantor of Temple Beth Emeth in the Flatbush section of Brooklyn for half a century, died of multiple myeloma Sunday at Maimonides Hospital. He was 86 years old and lived in Brooklyn. Walter A. Davidson, who served as cantor of Temple Beth Emet
Julius J. Adams, managing editor of The Amsterdam News from 1938 to 1950 and a former member of New York's Republican State Committee, died of a heart attack on Wednesday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 88 years old and lived in Manhattan. Julius J. Adams, mana
Michael O'R. Nash, who was photo and communications chief in Paris during a long career in The Associated Press foreign service, died in Paris today after a long battle with cancer, his family said. He was 69. Michael O'R. Nash, who was photo and communications chief in Paris 
William P. Farnsworth, auditor general of the United States Air Force from 1955 to 1963, died Tuesday at his home in Pompano Beach, Fla. He was 87 years old. William P. Farnsworth, auditor general of the United States Air Force from 1955 to 1963, died Tuesday at his home in Po
Walter W. Belson, retired assistant to the president and director of public relations for the American Trucking Associations in Washington, died of a stroke Tuesday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 87 years old. Walter W. Belson, retired assistant to the president and direc
Allan H. Reuben, a Philadelphia lawyer and civil rights advocate, died Thursday at Jefferson University Hospital, Philadelphia, after a long illness. He was 58 years old and lived in Elkins Park, Pa. Allan H. Reuben, a Philadelphia lawyer and civil rights advocate, died Thursd
Arthur Rutzen, a Federal Bureau of Investigation agent who later became a Commerce Department official, died of an aneurism Thursday at the Boca Raton Community Hospital in Florida. He was 79 years old and lived in Delray Beach, Fla. Arthur Rutzen, a Federal Bureau of Investig
Egon Orowan, a professor emeritus of mechanical engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, died Wednesday at Mount Auburn Hospital in Cambridge, Mass., after a brief illness. He was 87 years old and lived in Cambridge. Egon Orowan, a professor emeritus of mechan
Frank Gulden Jr., retired chairman and president of Gulden Mustard Company, Inc., a division of American Home Products Corporation, died Wednesday at Southside Hospital in Bay Shore, L.I., after a brief illness. He was 82 years old and lived in Bay Shore. Frank Gulden Jr., ret
George F. Mason Jr., a lawyer and president of Gunston Hall Inc., a California home building corporation, died of a heart attack Tuesday at St Joseph's Hospital in Orange, Calif. He was 65 years old and lived in Laguna Hills, Calif. George F. Mason Jr., a lawyer and president 
James T. Kearney, director of the Performing Arts Center at the State University of New York at Purchase, died yesterday in St. Luke's Hospital in Newburgh, N.Y. He was 38 years old and lived in Newburgh. James T. Kearney, director of the Performing Arts Center at the State Un
Raphael G. Scobey, a Manhattan lawyer who specialized in the entertainment business, died of lymphoma yesterday at the White Plains Hospital Medical Center. He was 72 years old and lived in Scarsdale, N.Y. Raphael G. Scobey, a Manhattan lawyer who specialized in the entertainm
Richard G. Macgill, former chairman of the New Jersey National Bank, died Tuesday at the Medical Center at Princeton (N.J.), after a long illness. He was 78 years old and lived in Princeton. Richard G. Macgill, former chairman of the New Jersey National Bank, died Tuesday at t
William Larimer Mellon Jr., an heir to his family's banking and oil fortune who in midlife became a disciple of Albert Schweitzer and spent his remaining years as a medical missionary in Haiti, died of cancer and Parkinson's disease on Thursday at his home in Deschapelles, Haiti. He w
Bishop Charles R. Mulrooney, who was the Auxiliary Bishop in the Roman Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn for 22 years until his retirement in 1981, died Saturday at the Queen of Peace Residence in Queens Village, Queens. He was 83 years old and was a resident of the church home for the age
John R. Kinard, the director since 1967 of the Smithsonian Institution's Anacostia Neighborhood Museum in Southeast Washington, died Saturday of myelofibrosis, a bone marrow disease, at the Greater Southeast Community Hospital in Washington. He was 53 years old and lived in Washington
Gerhard de Kock, who as governor of the South African central bank was credited with bringing a market-oriented approach to the Government's monetary policy, died today of colon cancer. He was 63 years old. Gerhard de Kock, who as governor of the South African central bank was
John G. Piper, a former vice president of the Pepperell textile company, died of bone cancer Friday at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford. He was 74 years old and lived in Westport, Conn. John G. Piper, a former vice president of the Pepperell textile company, died of bone ca
Paolo Garretto, an Italian caricaturist whose work appeared in Vanity Fair, The New Yorker, Fortune, House and Garden and other publications, died of cancer on Thursday at Princess Grace Hospital in Monaco. He was 86 years old and lived in Monte Carlo. Paolo Garretto, an Itali
Robert F. Jani, whose company produced spectacular stage shows for Radio City Music Hall and developed concepts for the Walt Disney organization, died Sunday night at his home in Palos Verdes Estates, Calif. He was 54 years old and had been ill for four years with amyotrophic lateral 
Thomas A. Stanley, a surgeon in New Jersey, died from complications of a stroke Sunday at St. Mary's Hospital in Orange, N.J. He suffered the stroke three weeks earlier. He was 71 years old and lived in Basking Ridge, N.J. Thomas A. Stanley, a surgeon in New Jersey, died from 
W. Wallace Smith, a former president of the Reorganized Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, died of cancer of the spine Aug. 4 at the Independence Regional Health Center. He was 88 years old and lived in Independence, Mo. W. Wallace Smith, a former president of the Re
Walter Ballard, who flew the plane that carried the nation's first load of transcontinental airmail in 1932, died after a lengthy illness Sunday at home. He was 93 years old. Walter Ballard, who flew the plane that carried the nation's first load of transcontinental airmail in
The Rev. A. W. Wilson, whose church became a rallying point for the 1955 bus boycott here that set off the civil rights protests, died Friday at his home after a long illness. He was 87 years old. The Rev. A. W. Wilson, whose church became a rallying point for the 1955 bus boy
Abraham P. Conan, a lawyer who specialized in labor and immigration matters and helped European refugees after World War II, died of pneumonia on July 26 following a stroke at his home in Manhattan. He was 91 years old. Abraham P. Conan, a lawyer who specialized in labor and i
Bernard M. Barenholtz, co-founder of the Creative Playthings children's toy company, died of a heart attack Saturday at his home in Marlborough, N.H. He was 75 years old. Bernard M. Barenholtz, co-founder of the Creative Playthings children's toy company, died of a heart attac
E. Hugh Luckey, former president of New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, died of lung cancer Sunday at New York Hospital. He was 69 years old and lived in Manhattan. E. Hugh Luckey, former president of New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, died of lung cancer Sunday a
Jan de Graaff, a horticulturist whose hybridization of lilies helped make them a favorite garden flower, died of Parkinson's disease Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 86 years old. Jan de Graaff, a horticulturist whose hybridization of lilies helped make them a favorit
Wilber Appleman, inventor of the motor for the Jacuzzi whirlpool bath, died July 25 because of injuries suffered in an automobile accident, a spokeswoman for Mission Hospital Regional Medical Center said today. He was 83 years old. Wilber Appleman, inventor of the motor for th
Francis M. Shea, a former Government official and partner in the Washington law firm of Shea & Gardner, died of lung cancer Tuesday at the Alexandria Hospital in Virginia. He was 74 years old and lived in Alexandria. Francis M. Shea, a former Government official and partner in
James M. Markham, the New York Times bureau chief in Paris, died there yesterday, apparently of a self-inflicted gunshot wound. He was 46 years old. James M. Markham, the New York Times bureau chief in Paris, died there yesterday, apparently of a self-inflicted gunshot wound. 
Jan V. Mladek, an official of the International Monetary Fund for nearly 30 years, died of bone cancer Monday at George Washington University Hospital in Washington. He was 77 years old and lived in Georgetown. Jan V. Mladek, an official of the International Monetary Fund for 
Richard W. Simmons, a stockbroker and former chairman of the Midwest Stock Exchange, died Tuesday at the Lake Forest (Ill.) Hospital. He was 84 years old and lived in Lake Bluff, Ill. Richard W. Simmons, a stockbroker and former chairman of the Midwest Stock Exchange, died Tue
Charles E. Robbins, a co-founder and first president of the Atomic Industrial Forum, an industry association seeking peaceful uses of atomic energy, died Wednesday at a retirement center in Sarasota, Fla., after a brief illness. He was 83 years old and had recently moved to Sarasota f
Harold Barger, professor emeritus of economics at Columbia University, died of pneumonia Wednesday at his home in Kinderhook, N.Y. He was 82 years old. Harold Barger, professor emeritus of economics at Columbia University, died of pneumonia Wednesday at his home in Kinderhook,
Marshall B. Davidson, a writer on American history and culture who was an editor of Horizon and American Heritage magazines, died of pneumonia on Tuesday in Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 82 years old. Marshall B. Davidson, a writer on American history and culture wh
Merton P. Stoltz, an economics professor and former provost of Brown University, died of lymphoma Monday at Rhode Island Hospital in Providence. He was 76 years old and lived in Providence. Merton P. Stoltz, an economics professor and former provost of Brown University, died o
Morris A. Shenker, a lawyer known for his defense of James R. Hoffa, the boss of the teamsters' union, in the 1960's died of pneumonia Tuesday at his daughter's house in Santa Monica, Calif., after a long illness. He was 82 years old and lived in St. Louis, Mo. Morris A. Shenk
Pierre Matisse, the internationally known art dealer who was the longtime champion of Joan Miro, Marc Chagall, Jean Dubuffet, Balthus and Yves Tanguy in the United States, died Wednesday in a hospital near his home in St.-Jean-Cap-Ferrat, France, after a stroke. He was 89 years old.  
Robert E. Kaske, a medieval scholar who taught at Cornell University for 25 years, died of a brain tumor Tuesday at his home in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 68 years old. Robert E. Kaske, a medieval scholar who taught at Cornell University for 25 years, died of a brain tumor Tuesday at
Rudy Mikeska, a restaurateur who served barbecue to Presidents, governors and millions of others for more than three decades, died of cancer Wednesday at his home here. He was 68 years old. Rudy Mikeska, a restaurateur who served barbecue to Presidents, governors and millions 
Theodore Kaghan, a former Foreign Service officer and journalist, died of heart failure Wednesday at Brattleboro (Vt.) Memorial Hospital. He was 77 years old and lived in Brattleboro. Theodore Kaghan, a former Foreign Service officer and journalist, died of heart failure Wedne
Francois Colos, an illustrator whose work appeared in many publications, died of encephalitis Wednesday at New York Hospital. He was 60 years old and lived in Manhattan. Francois Colos, an illustrator whose work appeared in many publications, died of encephalitis Wednesday at 
The Rev. Vincent P. Mallon, a Maryknoll missionary and teacher, died from complications of kidney disease Aug. 4 at Westchester County Medical Center in Valhalla, N.Y. He was 79 years old and lived in Maryknoll, N.Y. The Rev. Vincent P. Mallon, a Maryknoll missionary and teach
William J. Prater, a former official of the United Mine Workers serving life sentences for his role in the slayings of a union dissident and his family, died in his cell today, apparently of natural causes, officials said. He was 70 years old. William J. Prater, a former offic
Charles S. Lyon, professor emeritus of New York University Law School and a former United States assistant attorney general, died Friday at the Village Nursing Home in Manhattan, where he lived. He had suffered complications from a series of strokes. He was 72 years old. Charl
Nathan Levine, who worked with Gene Autry and John Wayne and headed Republic Pictures in a career spanning the silent and sound eras of movies, died Sunday at the Motion Picture and Television Hospital. He was 89 years old. Nathan Levine, who worked with Gene Autry and John Wa
William B. Burke, executive secretary of the St. Patrick's Day Parade Committee in New York City from 1978 to 1984 and grand marshal of the 1980 parade, died Friday at the Frances Schervier Home and Hospital in the Bronx, where he had lived since May. He was 84 years old and had resid
Dr. William F. Mitty Jr., professor of surgery at New York University School of Medicine, died of a heart attack Wednesday while vacationing in Puerto Rico. He was 67 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. William F. Mitty Jr., professor of surgery at New York University School
Representative Mickey Leland, whose burned and crumpled plane was found scattered on a forested mountainside of Ethiopia today, died as he had lived, trying to end world hunger. Representative Mickey Leland, whose burned and crumpled plane was found scattered on a forested mou
William Bradford Shockley, who shared a Nobel Prize in physics for his role in the creation of the transistor and earned the enmity of many for his views on the genetic differences between the races, died of cancer of the prostate at his home in California on Saturday. He was 79 years
Eugene R. Sullivan , a retired Wall Street lawyer, died after a long illness Sunday at his home in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 85 years old. Mr. Sullivan, a graduate of Holy Cross College and Harvard Law School, was a partner in Fruehaff, Farrell, Sullivan & Bryan. He represented the Citi
Dr. George F. Andreasen, an orthodontist who introduced an alloy of nickel and titanium for use in arch wires to straighten teeth, died of multiple myeloma Friday at Mercy Hospital in Iowa City. He was 55 years old and lived in Iowa City. Dr. George F. Andreasen, an orthodonti
John Phillip Nielsen, an emeritus professor of metallurgy at the Polytechnic Institute of New York and co-founder of the International Precious Metals Institute, died Saturday at the Slovene Home for the Aged in Cleveland, Ohio. He was 77 years old and had moved to Cleveland from Manh
Norris Darrell, a New York lawyer and tax expert, died Saturday at New York Hospital after a brief illness. He was 90 years old and lived in Manhattan. Norris Darrell, a New York lawyer and tax expert, died Saturday at New York Hospital after a brief illness. He was 90 years o
Representative Smith spent most of his life in law enforcement and emerged in his first seven months in Congress as a specialist on the drug problem. Representative Smith spent most of his life in law enforcement and emerged in his first seven months in Congress as a specialis
Charles T. Coiner, a painter and former art director of the N. W. Ayer Inc., advertising agency, died, apparently of natural causes, Sunday at home in Mechanicsville, Pa. He was 91 years old. Charles T. Coiner, a painter and former art director of the N. W. Ayer Inc., advertis
David Miller, the Mayor of Tonawanda, N.Y., and an official of the Western New York Economic Development Corporation, suffered a heart attack and died on his way to work Monday at the development corporation's office in Buffalo. He was 52 years old. David Miller, the Mayor of 
Louis M. Thayer, who was a member of the National Transportation Safety Board for nine years after retiring as a rear admiral in the Coast Guard, died of a heart attack Aug. 9 at his home in St. Augustine, Fla. He was 82 years old and had lived in the Washington area for 25 years befo
Lionel M. Gelber, a historian and philanthropist, died of a heart attack on Aug. 10 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Toronto, where he lived. He was 82 years old. Lionel M. Gelber, a historian and philanthropist, died of a heart attack on Aug. 10 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Toronto, 
James (Peter) Long, a former theatrical producer, promoter and artists' manager, died of a heart attack Aug. 11 in Los Angeles. He was 66 years old and lived in Los Angeles. James (Peter) Long, a former theatrical producer, promoter and artists' manager, died of a heart attack
Robert B. Anderson, the Texas-born lawyer who was Secretary of the Treasury from 1957 to 1961, died Monday at New York Hospital, a hospital spokesman said yesterday. Robert B. Anderson, the Texas-born lawyer who was Secretary of the Treasury from 1957 to 1961, died Monday at N
Tim Richmond, a former Indianapolis 500 rookie-of-the-year driver whose subsequent stock-car racing career was cut short by controversy and illness, died Sunday. He was 34 years old. Tim Richmond, a former Indianapolis 500 rookie-of-the-year driver whose subsequent stock-car r
Dr. E. Mark Beckman, professor of clinical obstetrics and gynecology at the New York University School of Medicine, died yesterday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center after being injured in a bicycle accident. He was 53 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. E. Mark Beckman
The Rev. Eugene F. O'Malley, considered the inspiration for the character of the same name portrayed by Bing Crosby in the movies ''Going My Way'' and ''The Bells of St. Mary's,'' died Monday of cardiac arrest at the St. Joseph Hospital and Health Care Center. He was 87 years old.    
General Minoru Genda, who planned the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, died of heart disease in a Tokyo hospital Tuesday on the 44th anniversary of the end of the World War II. He would have been 85 years old yesterday. General Minoru Genda, who planned the Japanese attack on 
Joseph F. Hengemuhle, former assistant special agent for the Foreign Counterintelligence Division of the F.B.I.'s New York City office, died during open-heart surgery Monday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 57 years old and lived in Westwood, N.J. Joseph F. Heng
Raleigh Verne Bond, an actor who performed on stage, screen and television, died of complications from lymphoma on Saturday at the Norris Cancer Hospital at the University of Southern California. He was 54 years old. Raleigh Verne Bond, an actor who performed on stage, screen 
Horace W. Fuller, a retired United States Marine Reserve brigadier general who served at Guadalcanal and with the French Resistance in World War II, died of cancer Wednesday in a clinic on the Greek island of Spetsai. He was 81 years old and lived on Spetsai. Horace W. Fuller,
Irvin S. Taubkin, director of public relations for The New York Times before his retirement in 1971, died of a heart attack yesterday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, where he was being treated for a fractured arm. He was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan. Irvin 
Dr. C. Eugene Morris, a former dean of students at Pace University, died Wednesday at his home in Albany, after a long illess. He was 75 years old. Dr. C. Eugene Morris, a former dean of students at Pace University, died Wednesday at his home in Albany, after a long illess. He
Charles Lee Reese Jr., former president of The News Journal Company in Wilmington, died of heart failure Wednesday at the retirment village where he lived in Hockessin, Del. He was 86 years old. Charles Lee Reese Jr., former president of The News Journal Company in Wilmington,
Julius L. Schapira, a lawyer who specialized in court appeals and was of counsel to the Manhattan firm of Greenberg, Cantor, Trager & Toplitz, died of pneumonia Wednesday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 87 years old and lived in Manhattan. Julius L. Schapira, a lawyer who speci
Le Thanh Nghi, former Vice President of Vietnam, died on Wednesday of old age and illness, the Hanoi radio reported today. He was 78 years old. Le Thanh Nghi, former Vice President of Vietnam, died on Wednesday of old age and illness, the Hanoi radio reported today. He was 78 
Dr. Manfred Weichsel, a pediatrician and immunologist for more than 50 years, died of congestive heart failure Wednesday at Long Island Jewish Hospital in Queens. He was 85 years old. Dr. Manfred Weichsel, a pediatrician and immunologist for more than 50 years, died of congest
Seward Brisbane, a real-estate executive in Manhattan, died of respiratory failure Thursday at his home in Upper Brookville, L.I. He was 74 years old. Seward Brisbane, a real-estate executive in Manhattan, died of respiratory failure Thursday at his home in Upper Brookville, L
Ford Mason, whose penny gum ball machines have been a fixture in stores and service stations across the United States for the last half century, died Wednesday in Delray Beach, Fla. He was 95 years old. Ford Mason, whose penny gum ball machines have been a fixture in stores an
Frank J. DeFrancis, a prominent Washington lawyer who became a Maryland government official and a giant in the state's horse-racing industry, died of heart failure Friday at the Miami Heart Institute in Florida. He was 62 years old and lived in Clarksville, Md. Frank J. DeFran
Representative Mickey Leland was eulogized today as a martyr for the cause of world hunger, and mourners were urged to honor his memory by carrying on his work. Representative Mickey Leland was eulogized today as a martyr for the cause of world hunger, and mourners were urged 
Richard C. Sheldon, a retired Ford Foundation executive, drowned in a boating accident Wednesday off Mount Desert Island, Me. He was 70 years old. Richard C. Sheldon, a retired Ford Foundation executive, drowned in a boating accident Wednesday off Mount Desert Island, Me. He w
Stavro Skendi, professor emeritus of Balkan languages and cultures at Columbia University, died of Parkinson's disease Thursday at Southampton Hospital on Long Island. He was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan. Stavro Skendi, professor emeritus of Balkan languages and culture
Steven Harry Carey, a poet and grandson of the late Harry Carey, the Western star who appeared in over 300 films, died of a heart attack Aug. 13 in Spring Lake, N.J., while visiting relatives. He was 43 years old and lived in Manhattan. Steven Harry Carey, a poet and grandson 
William A. Casselman, a former executive editor of The Daily News, died of complications from pulmonary fibrosis yesterday at the Champlain Valley Physicians Hospital in Plattsburgh, N.Y. He was 86 years old and lived in Elizabethtown, N.Y. William A. Casselman, a former execu
William K. Beckers, an investment banker who was a partner in Spencer Trask & Company for four decades and later was a vice president of Shearson, Lehman, Hutton, died of a brain tumor on Aug. 10 at his home in East Hampton, L.I. He was 89 years old. William K. Beckers, an inv
Joseph A. Pechman, a leading scholar of tax policy and the director of economic studies at the Brookings Institution for more than 20 years, died Saturday after suffering a heart attack while playing tennis in Potomac, Md. He was 71 years old and lived in Bethesda. Joseph A. P
Charles A. Schoeneck Jr., a stalwart in New York State Republican politics, died Saturday at Crouse Irving Memorial Hospital in Syracuse after a short illness. He was 77 years old and lived in Syracuse. Charles A. Schoeneck Jr., a stalwart in New York State Republican politics
Paul Novick, a founder and longtime editor in chief of The Morning Freiheit, a left-wing Yiddish daily, died yesterday of congestive heart failure and kidney deficiency at Peekskill (N.Y.) Hospital. He was 97 years old and had homes in Manhattan and Croton-on-Hudson. Paul Novi
William F. Bolger, the nation's Postmaster General from 1978 to 1984, died yesterday at Arlington Hospital. He was 66 years old and lived in Springfield, Va. William F. Bolger, the nation's Postmaster General from 1978 to 1984, died yesterday at Arlington Hospital. He was 66 y
James Terrell, an architect who developed designs for many of the nation's leading stores, including Saks Fifth Avenue, Macy's and Bloomingdale's in New York and Marshall Field in Chicago, died of AIDS at New York Hospital on Saturday. He was 45 years old and lived in Manhattan.      
John Duncan Simpson, former executive director of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and former president of the New York City Transit Authority, died of cancer yesterday at Hoag Hospital in Newport Beach, Calif. He was 52 years old and lived in Laguna Hills, Calif. Joh
John Hylan Heminway, a stockbroker in New York for more than 40 years, died Friday at the St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center after a brief illness. He was 75 years old and had homes in Manhattan and Watch Hill, R.I. John Hylan Heminway, a stockbroker in New York for more tha
Harry Schneider, a lawyer in New York for 60 years, died Monday at a Mamaroneck, N.Y., nursing home, after a long illness. He was 81 years old and lived in Harrison, N.Y. Harry Schneider, a lawyer in New York for 60 years, died Monday at a Mamaroneck, N.Y., nursing home, after
With the most vivid image of him a poster - the Black Panther defense minister poised on a throne-like rattan chair, a spear in one hand, a rifle in the other - it would be easy to see Huey Newton living and dying by the gun. A fuller picture is more complex. Huey Newton, the son of a
Irving E. Hankin, a commodities economist, died of lung cancer Saturday at his home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 79 years old and was a longtime resident of Syosset, L.I. Irving E. Hankin, a commodities economist, died of lung cancer Saturday at his home in Fort Lauderdale,
Joseph W. La Shelle, a cinematographer who was nominated for Academy Awards eight times and won an Oscar for his work on ''Laura,'' died Sunday. He was 89 years old. Joseph W. La Shelle, a cinematographer who was nominated for Academy Awards eight times and won an Oscar for hi
Lord Hill, a former chairman of the British Broadcasting Corporation and a household name in World War II as the Radio Doctor, died today. He was 85 years old. Lord Hill, a former chairman of the British Broadcasting Corporation and a household name in World War II as the Radi
Rostislav Hlopoff, an art conservator and a professor emeritus of art conservation at the State University College at Oneonta, N.Y., died of bone cancer on Friday at the Tolstoy Foundation Nursing Home in Valley Cottage, N.Y. He was 86 years old.  Mr. Hlopoff restored 18th-century Fre
Harold M. Olmstead, a retired engineer who specialized in public utility work, died Aug. 9 in the infirmary of the Virginian, a residence for the elderly in Fairfax, Va. He was 98 years old. Harold M. Olmstead, a retired engineer who specialized in public utility work, died Au
Hickman Price Jr., a former assistant secretary in the United States Department of Commerce and a business executive, died of a heart attack Tuesday at his home in Southampton, L.I. He was 78 years old and also lived in Palm Beach, Fla. Hickman Price Jr., a former assistant se
Dr. Joseph C. Addonizio, a urologist who was chairman of the department of urology at the New York Medical College and president of the New York Academy of Medicine, died of heart failure Sunday at the Northern Westchester Hospital Center in Mount Kisco, N.Y. He was 59 years old and l
Philip C. Horton, a former editor who was a professor of public diplomacy at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy before his retirement in 1977, died Sunday at his home in Danbury, Conn. He was 78 years old. Philip C. Horton, a former editor who was a professor of public d
R. D. Laing, the British psychiatrist who broke with traditional psychotherapy and sought new treatments for schizophrenia based on a concern for the rights of mental patients, died suddenly yesterday while vacationing in France. He was 61 years old. R. D. Laing, the British p
Robert Edward Anderson, a retired advertising executive who was a vice president of Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborne, died of cancer Monday at Seton Medical Center in Austin, Tex. He was 77 years old and lived in Hico, Tex. Robert Edward Anderson, a retired advertising execu
Aleksandr S. Yakovlev, who designed World War II warplanes and modern passenger jets in a career of more than 60 years, died Tuesday after a long illness, Tass said today. He was 84 years old. Aleksandr S. Yakovlev, who designed World War II warplanes and modern passenger jets
Ari Bahat, an architect who was noted for his use of glass block for furniture and interiors, died of pulmonary arrest Wednesday at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 48 years old and lived in Manhattan. Ari Bahat, an architect who was noted for his use of
Dr. Arthur F. Ackerman, a pediatrician, died Sunday at the Medical Center in Princeton, N.J. He was 85 years old and lived in Hightstown, N.J. Dr. Arthur F. Ackerman, a pediatrician, died Sunday at the Medical Center in Princeton, N.J. He was 85 years old and lived in Hightsto
Herbert Vogler, a Broadway stage manager, died of AIDS Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 47 years old. Herbert Vogler, a Broadway stage manager, died of AIDS Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 47 years old. Mr. Vogler, who was born in the Bronx, worked
Leon Becker, a lawyer and acting justice in New York State Supreme Court, died of lung cancer Monday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 70 years old and lived in Manhattan. Leon Becker, a lawyer and acting justice in New York State Supreme Court
Dr. Michael A. Diana, a Manhattan surgeon who served for many years as a volunteer in hospitals in Afghanistan, India and Nicaragua, died of prostate cancer on Sunday at the Medical Center Hospital of Vermont in Burlington. He was 80 years old and lived in Ferrisburg, Vt. Dr. 
R. D. Laing, the British psychiatrist who broke with traditional psychotherapy and sought new treatments for schizophrenia based on a concern for the rights of mental patients, died suddenly Wednesday while vacationing in France. He was 61 years old. R. D. Laing, the British p
William A. Steele, former president and chairman of the Wheeling Steel Corporation, died of an aortal aneurysm Aug. 15 at the Lee County Hospital in Fort Myers, Fla. He was 89 years old and lived in Shell Point Village, Fla. William A. Steele, former president and chairman of 
William Constable, an Australian painter and set and costume designer for ballet, opera, theater and film, died Monday of pneumonia at his home in Melbourne. He was 83 years old. William Constable, an Australian painter and set and costume designer for ballet, opera, theater a
Charles Impaglia, director of program scheduling for the Public Broadcasting Service, died of AIDS on Sunday at the Hospice of Washington. He was 39 years old. Charles Impaglia, director of program scheduling for the Public Broadcasting Service, died of AIDS on Sunday at the H
Eugene Frank Robel a labor advocate who won a Supreme Court ruling against a law that barred Communists from working in military plants, was killed when he was struck by a train last Sunday. He was 78 years old. Eugene Frank Robel a labor advocate who won a Supreme Court rulin
Herbert Vogler, a Broadway stage manager, died of AIDS Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 47 years old. Herbert Vogler, a Broadway stage manager, died of AIDS Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 47 years old. Mr. Vogler, who was born in the Bronx, worked
Lewis Conn, a former newspaper publisher and labor union leader, died after life support systems were removed from him at the request of the family Tuesday at the Anne Arundel Medical Center in Annapolis, Md. Lewis Conn, a former newspaper publisher and labor union leader, die
Dr. Raymond Harris, founder and first president of the Council on Geriatric Cardiology, died of stomach and liver cancer yesterday at his home in Albany. He was 70 years old. Dr. Raymond Harris, founder and first president of the Council on Geriatric Cardiology, died of stomac
William Constable, an Australian painter and set and costume designer for ballet, opera, theater and film, died of pneumonia Monday at his home in Melbourne. He was 83 years old. William Constable, an Australian painter and set and costume designer for ballet, opera, theater a
Benjamin F. Rogers, a medical publisher, died of cancer Friday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 59 years old and lived in Huntington, L.I. Benjamin F. Rogers, a medical publisher, died of cancer Friday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in 
Christopher W. French, a journalist and administrator with The Associated Press for 23 years, has died at the age of 49. Christopher W. French, a journalist and administrator with The Associated Press for 23 years, has died at the age of 49. The cause of and date of de
Dennis L. O'Connor, a lawyer, died of cancer Wednesday at the home of his sister in Larchmont, N.Y. He was 76 years old and was a longtime resident of White Plains. Dennis L. O'Connor, a lawyer, died of cancer Wednesday at the home of his sister in Larchmont, N.Y. He was 76 ye
Nathan Susskind, a New Jersey lawyer and philanthropist, died of cancer Friday at Bayonne (N.J.) Hospital. He was 91 years old and lived in Bayonne. Nathan Susskind, a New Jersey lawyer and philanthropist, died of cancer Friday at Bayonne (N.J.) Hospital. He was 91 years old a
Irving Stone, a prolific author whose exhaustively researched and often immense biographical novels included ''Lust for Life,'' based on the story of van Gogh, died of heart failure on Saturday night at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 86 years old and lived in Bever
Nathan Susskind, a New Jersey lawyer and philanthropist, died of cancer Friday at Bayonne (N.J.) Hospital. He was 91 years old and lived in Bayonne. Nathan Susskind, a New Jersey lawyer and philanthropist, died of cancer Friday at Bayonne (N.J.) Hospital. He was 91 years old a
Arthur Schoenhaut, a retired Federal official, died of a heart attack Saturday at Peninsula General Hospital in Salisbury, Md. He was 64 years old and lived in Bethesda, Md. Arthur Schoenhaut, a retired Federal official, died of a heart attack Saturday at Peninsula General Hos
Christopher W. French, an Associated Press newsman and administrator for 23 years and editor of the A.P. Stylebook since 1980, has died at age 49. Christopher W. French, an Associated Press newsman and administrator for 23 years and editor of the A.P. Stylebook since 1980, has
Dr. Charles Lewis Fox Jr., a microbiologist who developed a widely used treatment for severe burns, died of a heart embolism yesterday at New Milford (Conn.), Hospital. He was 81 years old and had homes in Sherman, Conn., and Fort Lauderdale, Fla. Dr. Charles Lewis Fox Jr., a 
Edmond P. Bartnett, a New York reporter and editor for more than 51 years, died Saturday at the New Rochelle Hospital Medical Center after a long illness. He was 98 years old and lived in New Rochelle. Edmond P. Bartnett, a New York reporter and editor for more than 51 years, 
Ernst Henry Krause, a nuclear physicist and aerospace executive, died of heart failure at his home Wednesday after a long illness. He was 76 years old. Ernst Henry Krause, a nuclear physicist and aerospace executive, died of heart failure at his home Wednesday after a long ill
Former comrades remembered Huey P. Newton today as a ''minister from the street'' and a ''courageous prophet'' who fought tirelessly for the rights of blacks and the poor. Former comrades remembered Huey P. Newton today as a ''minister from the street'' and a ''courageous prop
J. Wallace Hopkins Jr., deputy executive director of the International Energy Agency, died of cancer on Sunday at the American Hospital in Paris. He was 58 years old and lived in Paris. Mr. Hopkins was a legal adviser to the United States State Department for a year before joining the
Joseph Alsop, the syndicated Washington columnist whose robust opinions appeared in newspapers around the country for five decades, died yesterday morning in his house in the Georgetown section of Washington. He was 78 years old. Joseph Alsop, the syndicated Washington columni
Maurice C. Dreicer, a radio personality and program developer who engaged in such novel pursuits as recording a verbal cocktail-mixing manual and pursuing a 40-year search for the perfect steak, died of cancer Wednesday at his home in Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. He was 78 years old. In the l
Bruce Gould, co-editor with his wife, Beatrice Blackmar Gould, of the Ladies' Home Journal from 1935 until 1962, died of congestive heart failure Sunday at his home in Hopewell, N.J. He was 91 years old. Mr. Gould was on the editorial staff of the Saturday Evening Post in 1935 when he
Feliks Topolski, a Polish-born artist and writer who painted battle scenes and portraits of British royalty for the Government, died Thursday. He was 82 years old and had heart trouble and diabetes. Feliks Topolski, a Polish-born artist and writer who painted battle scenes and
Gerald J. Weber, a retired United States District Court judge who was the chief Federal judge in western Pennsylvania from 1976 to 1982, died of cancer on Monday. He was 75 years old and lived in Erie. Gerald J. Weber, a retired United States District Court judge who was the c
John M. Cotter, who began working in a Minnesota hardware store as a clerk and later founded the True Value hardware chain, died of cancer on Monday. He was 85 years old and lived in Evanston. John M. Cotter, who began working in a Minnesota hardware store as a clerk and later
John Howland Steinway, the retired chairman of Steinway & Sons piano makers, died yesterday at the Jordan Hospital in Plymouth, Mass. The cause of death was not immediately available, but Mr. Steinway, who was 72 years old and had homes in Manhattan and Plymouth, had had cancer surger
Maurice C. Dreicer, a radio personality and program developer who engaged in such novel pursuits as recording a verbal cocktail-mixing manual and pursuing a 40-year search for the perfect steak, died of cancer last Wednesday at his home in Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. He was 78 years old. In 
Nathan K. Kolodner, former president of the Gay Men's Health Crisis, died of AIDS-related causes Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 38 years old. Nathan K. Kolodner, former president of the Gay Men's Health Crisis, died of AIDS-related causes Monday at his home in Manhatt
Norris H. Hoyt, retired editorial director of Houghton Mifflin's educational division, died of coronary artery disease Monday at his home in Hanover, N.H. He was 83 years old. Norris H. Hoyt, retired editorial director of Houghton Mifflin's educational division, died of corona
Dimitri M. Yassukovich, a retired partner in the investment banking concern of White, Weld & Company, died of complications from pneumonia Tuesday at his summer home in Locust Valley, L.I. He was 91 years old and lived in Hobe Sound, Fla. Dimitri M. Yassukovich, a retired part
Elliott Horne, a jazz writer and press agent, died on Tuesday at Beth Israel Hospital in New York City. He was 67 years old and lived in New York City. Elliott Horne, a jazz writer and press agent, died on Tuesday at Beth Israel Hospital in New York City. He was 67 years old a
F. W. Dietmar Schaefer, a senior lawyer with the Mobil Corporation for 27 years, died Monday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan after a long illness. He was 60 years old and lived in Manhattan. F. W. Dietmar Schaefer, a senior lawyer with the Mobil Corporation for 27 years, d
Giorgio Sant'Angelo, a fashion designer and member of the avant-garde for more than 20 years, died of lung cancer Tuesday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 56 years old and lived in Manhattan. Giorgio Sant'Angelo, a fashion designer and member of the avant-garde 
Herbert B. Loper, a retired Army major general and former chairman of the Military Liaison Committee of the Atomic Energy Commission, died of cardiac arrest on Friday at the Palm Bay Care Center in Florida. He was 92 years old and had lived in Bozman, Md., before entering the nursing 
Jan Stacy, a writer and artist, died of AIDS on Aug. 20 at Cape Cod Hospital in Hyannis, Mass. He was 41 years old. Jan Stacy, a writer and artist, died of AIDS on Aug. 20 at Cape Cod Hospital in Hyannis, Mass. He was 41 years old. Mr. Stacy wrote several books about m
Joe Collins, a first baseman for 10 years with the New York Yankees, died today at his home here. He was 66 years old. Joe Collins, a first baseman for 10 years with the New York Yankees, died today at his home here. He was 66 years old. He played for the Yankees from 
Lorenzo Natali, who served as vice president of the European Commission for 11 years and helped negotiate the entry of Spain, Portugal and Greece into the European Community, died Monday at his Rome residence after a long illness. He was 66 years old. Lorenzo Natali, who serve
Seymour Krim, an author and critic, was found dead, apparently of a drug overdose, in his Manhattan apartment last night, the police said. Seymour Krim, an author and critic, was found dead, apparently of a drug overdose, in his Manhattan apartment last night, the police said.
Sir Peter Scott, a painter, ornithologist, yachtsman and television personality who abandoned hunting to become one of the world's leading campaigners for wildlife protection, died of a heart attack Tuesday, his environmental group said today. He was 79 years old. Sir Peter Sc
Walter William Friend Jr., senior vice president of Paine Webber, the Wall Street investment company, died of a heart attack Tuesday at his home in Norwalk, Conn. He was 69 years old. Walter William Friend Jr., senior vice president of Paine Webber, the Wall Street investment 
