 John Michael Montias, an economist who became one of the foremost scholars on the painter Johannes Vermeer and a pioneer in the economics of art, died on Tuesday at a hospice in Branford, Conn. He was 76 and lived in New Haven. The cause was complications from melanoma, said his son
 Willem F. Duisenberg, the blunt-spoken Dutch central banker who oversaw the introduction of the euro as the first president of the European Central Bank, was found dead on Sunday in a swimming pool at his villa in the south of France, the French government said. He was 70. An autops
 King Fahd, the absolutist monarch of Saudi Arabia who died yesterday after 23 years on the throne, guided his desert kingdom through sharp upheavals in the oil market, sweeping regional wars and the incessant, high-stakes scrimmage between Islamic tradition and breakneck modernization.     
 Pat McCormick, a comedian known for his unruly appearance and his immaculate one-liners, died on Friday at the Motion Picture and Television Hospital in Los Angeles, according to a hospital spokeswoman. He was 78. He had resided at the hospital since suffering a stroke in 1998.     
 Robert Wright, a composer and lyricist who, with his professional partner, George Forrest, made Broadway audiences swoon to the unlikely strains of Edvard Grieg and Alexander Borodin, died Wednesday in Miami. He was 90. His death was announced by his brother, Jack Wright, of Glovers
 David Shaw, the Pulitzer Prize-winning media critic for The Los Angeles Times whose deeply reported series were often tough on his own newspaper, died on Monday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 62. The cause was complications of a brain tumor, the paper said.   
 Donald Brooks, an early designer of American sportswear and one of the first to cross over from fashion to make clothes for the theater and the movies, died on Monday at Stony Brook University Hospital on Long Island. He was 77 and had homes in Manhattan and Bridgehampton, N.Y. The 
 Jay Hammond, who went from bush pilot, trapper and professional hunter to become the fourth governor of Alaska, earning Alaskans' gratitude by giving them annual dividends from gushing new oil revenues, died on Tuesday at his home at Lake Clark, in southwest Alaska. He was 83. The N
 Al Aronowitz, one of the first professional journalists to cover rock 'n' roll, died on Monday in Elizabeth, N.J. He was 77. The cause was cancer, said his son Joel Roi Aronowitz. In columns and reviews for The New York Post and in feature articles for The Saturday Evening P
 Gary Belkin, a comedy writer whose credited works included jokes for Sid Caesar, Carol Burnett and the television series ''Car 54, Where Are You?'' and whose ghostwriting included some of the provocative poems intoned by Muhammad Ali, died on July 28 in West Hollywood, Calif. He was 79.    
 Alfredo Corvino, a dancer who became a distinguished ballet teacher during more than four decades at the Juilliard School and who accepted the invitation of Pina Bausch, one of his prize pupils, to tour as her company's balletmaster, died on Tuesday at Roosevelt Hospital. He was 89 and live
 Little Milton, a bluesman with a gritty voice and a sensuous guitar style who had hits throughout the 1960's and 70's, died yesterday in a hospital in Memphis. He was 71 and lived in Las Vegas and Memphis. He died a week after suffering a stroke that left him in a coma, said Burton 
 Lucky Thompson, a legendary tenor and soprano saxophonist who took his place among the elite improvisers of jazz from the 1940's to the 1960's and then quit music, roamed the country and ended up homeless or hospitalized for more than a decade, died on Saturday in Seattle. He was 81.       
 Al McKibbon, a bassist who anchored some of the leading jazz bands of the 1940's and 50's, died on Friday in Los Angeles. He was 86. His death was announced by Gary Chen-Stein, a friend, who owns the music store Stein on Vine in Hollywood. Mr. McKibbon was admired by fellow 
 Dan Crawford, who as a boy in New Jersey fell in love with British comedy movies and followed his heart to London, where he ran a tiny theater in a rickety Victorian pub that became an influential stage for top-notch live drama, died in London on July 13. He was 62. The cause was li
 Morton Yarmon, a former director of public information and education for the American Jewish Committee and, with his wife, Betty, a major benefactor of Beth Israel Medical Center, died on Wednesday in his home on the East Side of Manhattan. He was 89. His death followed complication
 George Forman, a longtime comptroller of the American Civil Liberties Union who brought fiscal discipline to a ramshackle organization near bankruptcy in the late 1970's and later helped it develop into a powerful civil liberties conglomerate, died on Monday at the home of his daughter, Jud
 The Rev. Dr. Theodore Alexander Gill Sr., a Presbyterian theologian, philosophy teacher and an influential provost emeritus of John Jay College in Manhattan, died on June 10 in Princeton. He was 85. The death was announced late last month by his family. A Presbyterian minist
 Robin Cook, a former British foreign secretary who quit the government to protest the invasion of Iraq, died on Saturday after collapsing in the Scottish Highlands on a mountain called Ben Stack, the police said, without explaining the cause of death. He was 59. Mr. Cook was close t
 Ibrahim Ferrer, the Cuban singer whose life included one of popular music's most triumphant second acts, died on Saturday in Havana. He was 78. The cause was multiple organ failure, his manager, Carmen Romero, announced. Mr. Ferrer was at the center of the Buena Vista Social
 Leonard L. Farber, the first president of the International Council of Shopping Centers, died on July 28 at his home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 89. The cause was Parkinson's disease, his family said. Mr. Farber joined the council as president when it was founded in 1957, as sho
 Peter Jennings, a high school dropout from Canada who transformed himself into one of the most urbane, well-traveled and recognizable journalists on American television, died yesterday at home. He was 67 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was lung cancer, said Charles Gibson, who ann
 Robin Cook, a former British foreign secretary who quit the government to protest the invasion of Iraq, died on Saturday after collapsing in the Scottish Highlands on a mountain called Ben Stack, the police said, without explaining the cause of death. He was 59. Mr. Cook was close t
 Gene Mauch, who managed for 26 seasons in the major leagues and took three teams to the verge of a pennant but never to a World Series, died yesterday at a hospital in Rancho Mirage, Calif. He was 79. Mauch's death was announced by the Los Angeles Angels, who said he had cancer.    
 John H. Johnson, who used his mother's furniture as security for a $500 loan to start the business empire that eventually included Ebony and Jet magazines and that made him one of the nation's richest and most powerful black businessmen, died yesterday in Chicago. He was 87. A compa
 Peter Jennings, a high school dropout from Canada who transformed himself into one of the most urbane, well-traveled and recognizable journalists on American television, died on Sunday at home. He was 67 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was lung cancer, said Charles Gibson, who ann
 Abe Hirschfeld, the eccentric real estate magnate who made a fortune building parking garages in New York City and spent much of it courting publicity and running unsuccessfully for public office, died yesterday at Saint Barnabas Hospital in the Bronx. He was 85. The cause was compl
 Thomas W. Langfitt, who led the Pew Charitable Trusts to prominence in the 1980's and 90's, died on Sunday at his home in Wynnewood, Pa. He was 78. His death followed a long illness, his family said. Dr. Langfitt, originally a medical researcher, retired in 1987 as chief of 
 Dick Heyward, a retired senior official of the United Nations Children's Fund who for more than 30 years developed and oversaw Unicef's relief efforts around the world, died on Aug. 3 in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 90 and lived in Great Neck, N.Y. Mr. Heyward died after a long illness, U
 Philip J. Klass, an electrical engineer and aviation editor who earned the nickname Sherlock Holmes of U.F.O.'s for his assiduous, acidic debunking of flying saucers and those who claim to see them, died Tuesday at his home in Merritt Island, Fla. The cause was prostate cancer, Rosa
 Ted Radcliffe, one of the last surviving Negro leagues stars, whose prowess on the pitching mound and behind the plate inspired Damon Runyon to nickname him Double Duty, died yesterday in Chicago. He was 103. The cause was complications from cancer, said the Chicago White Sox, who i
 Walter J. McNerney, who oversaw the integration of Blue Cross and Blue Shield and gave shape to the Congressional debate leading to Medicare and Medicaid, died on July 29 at his home in Winnetka, Ill. He was 80. His death was announced by Northwestern University, where he retired in
 Alexander Kossiakoff, a chemist and missile scientist who helped develop radar-guided missiles for Navy ships and later supervised the building of satellites and radar systems for the Defense Department, died Aug. 6 in a hospital in Maryland. He was 91. The cause was heart failure, 
 Dr. Conrad M. Riley, a versatile pediatrician who helped describe Riley-Day syndrome, a rare genetic childhood disorder that harms the nervous system and often leads to early death, died on July 5 at the University of Colorado Hospital in Denver. He was 91. The cause was an aortic a
 Julian C. Stanley, a psychologist and champion of academically gifted children who helped promote testing nationwide to identify promising students and then lobbied for special programs to challenge them, died on Friday in a hospital in Columbia, Md. He was 87. The cause was pneumon
 Stephen Edward Weil, a legal expert in the arts and a museum administrator long associated with the Smithsonian Institution, died on Tuesday in Washington. He was 77. The cause was liver failure, his family said. A lawyer by training and a former official of the Whitney Muse
 David Teitelbaum, a prominent corporate lawyer who helped found the Brooklyn Philharmonic in 1954 and was its first president, died on Aug. 3 at his home in Manhattan. He was 98. Mr. Teitelbaum's family confirmed the death. A partner in the New York law firm Donovan, Leisure
 David Loeb Weiss, a retired proofreader at The New York Times who directed the award-winning 1980 documentary film ''Farewell, Etaoin Shrdlu,'' which chronicled the last, clangorous night that the paper was put out using hot-metal type, died on Thursday at his home in San Diego. He was in h
 Joseph J. Kovach, a former deputy managing editor of The Daily News, died on Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived in East Hampton, N.Y. The cause was congestive heart failure, said his brother, Bill Kovach. Mr. Kovach worked for The News from 1963 
 Sperry Andrews, a painter who with his wife, Doris Bass Andrews, helped preserve the home of the influential American artist Julian Alden Weir as a national park, died on July 14 in Danbury, Conn. He was 87 and lived at the Weir farmhouse in Ridgefield, Conn. The cause was pneumonia
 Ted Croner, whose rigorously blurry photographs of New York at night in the 1940's epitomized the film noir energy of a city that never sleeps, died on Monday in Manhattan. He was 82. He died of natural causes, said Margit Erb of the Howard Greenberg Gallery, which represents him.  
 Armand S. Deutsch, a child of privilege who escaped becoming the victim of one of the 20th century's most celebrated crimes and lived on to befriend many of its most celebrated personalities as a movie producer and Hollywood bon vivant, died on Saturday in Los Angeles. He was 92 and lived i
 Brother Roger, the Swiss Protestant theologian who in 1940 founded a community of monks in Taizé, in eastern France, that became a worldwide ecumenical movement, died there on Tuesday. He was 90. Brother Roger was stabbed in the throat during an evening service in his church by a w
 Bertram L. Podell, a lawyer and three-term Democratic representative from Brooklyn whose conflict-of-interest trial brought Rudolph W. Giuliani to public notice as a young prosecutor in 1974, died of kidney failure on Wednesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived on the
 John N. Bahcall, an astrophysicist who helped prove what makes the sun shine and worked behind the scenes in Washington for more than three decades to help ensure the construction and survival of the Hubble Space Telescope, died on Wednesday at NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell hospital. H
 Manfred Korfmann, a German archaeologist whose excavations revived research and debate about ancient Troy, the besieged Bronze Age city that Homer immortalized in ''The Iliad,'' died Aug. 11 at his home near Tübingen, Germany. He was 63. His death was reported by the University of 
 Alexander Golitzen, an Academy Award-winning art director and production designer who for 40 years made entire civilizations, from shimmering Old World cities to tawdry Old West towns, rise on the back lots of Hollywood, died on July 26 in San Diego. He was in his late 90's and had lived in
 Aleksandr Gomelsky, the patriarch of Soviet basketball and coach of the Soviet men's team that won the 1988 Olympic gold medal, died Tuesday at a hospital in Moscow. He was 77. His death was announced by the Central Army basketball club of Moscow, which he coached from 1966 to 1988. Gomelsk
 Theodore F. Shaker, a former chairman and chief executive of the Arbitron Ratings Company, died on Wednesday in New Canaan, Conn. He was 83 and lived in Darien, Conn. The cause was complications of a fractured hip, his family said; he also had Parkinson's disease. Mr. Shaker
 Alan Fredericks, a travel writer and editor who began his career as the host of a popular doo-wop radio show in New York City, died on July 31 at his home in Old Bridge, N.J. He was 70. The cause was cancer, said his son Todd. Mr. Fredericks was the editor of Travel Weekly, 
 François Dalle, a prominent French industrialist who guided L'Oréal in the years it became a worldwide cosmetics empire, died in Geneva, where he lived, on Aug. 9. He was 87. His death was confirmed by L'Oréal's headquarters in Paris. Mr. Dalle took over the company from 
 Tonino Delli Colli, a prolific and versatile cinematographer whose images illuminated the work of many of Italy's most famous filmmakers, died on Tuesday at his home in Rome. He was 81. The cause was a heart attack, said his son, Stefano. In a career that included more than 
 Gordon Boelzner, who rose from rehearsal pianist at New York City Ballet to become the company's music director, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 68. Mr. Boelzner had had a heart bypass operation in recent years, and a City Ballet spokeswoman said the cause of deat
 Keter Betts, a veteran jazz bassist who spent more than two decades accompanying Ella Fitzgerald and played a role in bringing the bossa nova to the United States, died on Aug. 6 at his home in Silver Spring, Md. He was 77. His death was confirmed by McGuire Funeral Services in Wash
 R. Frederic Fisher, a maritime and conservation lawyer who was a co-founder of Earthjustice, a public-interest law firm in San Francisco pledged to the defense of the environment, died on Aug. 16 at his home in Inverness, Calif. He was 68. The cause was cancer, the organization said
 Robert Moog, the creator of the electronic music synthesizer that bears his name and that became ubiquitous among experimental composers as well as rock musicians in the 1960's and 70's, died on Sunday at his home in Asheville, N.C. He was 71. The cause was an inoperable brain tumor
 Sumner M. Rosen, a prominent political economist and a longtime advocate of social policies to benefit working people, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82. The cause of death was cancer, his family said. At his death, Dr. Rosen was emeritus professor at the
 Abraham S. Goldstein, a former dean of Yale Law School, died on Saturday at his home in Woodbridge, Conn. He was 80. His death was announced by Yale University, where he had taken emeritus status at the end of the academic year. It said the cause was a heart attack. An exper
 Donald H. Shively, a noted scholar of Japanese literature and culture whose work helped forge the emerging discipline of Japanese studies in the United States in the decades after World War II, died on Aug. 13 in Oakland, Calif. He was 84 and lived in Berkeley. The cause was complic
 Lloyd Meeds, a seven-term House member from Washington State who helped enact watershed education legislation, died on Aug. 17 at his home in Church Creek, Md. He was 77. The cause of his death was cancer, according to a statement from his law firm. During his 14 years in Co
 Charles S. ReVelle, an environmental engineer and systems analyst whose creative application of mathematical models helped determine the ideal sites for reservoirs, nature preserves, power stations and other projects, died on Aug. 10 at his home in Baltimore. He was 67. The cause wa
 Clarence C. Newcomer, who as a federal judge in Philadelphia for more than three decades won a reputation for no-nonsense jurisprudence in hundreds of cases ranging from civil rights to organized crime to baseball cards, died Monday at his home in Stone Harbor, N.J., near Cape May. He was 8
 Vito J. Pitta, a former president of the New York Hotel and Motel Trades Council and longtime leader of its core Local 6, died on Sunday at his home on Staten Island. He was 78 and also had a home in Sunny Isles, Fla. The cause was complications of lung cancer, his family said.     
 Lyndon Woodside, a choral conductor who for more than three decades led one of New York City's oldest and largest choruses, the Oratorio Society of New York, died on Tuesday in Engelwood, N.J. He was 70 and lived in Leonia, N.J. The cause was pneumonia, said Richard Pace, president 
 Richard Kelly, a Florida politician who became the only Republican congressman convicted in the Abscam corruption scandal a quarter century ago, died Monday at a nursing home in Stevensville, Mont., where he had moved in retirement. He was 81. His death was confirmed by the Whitesit
 Duncan R. Elder, a leading advocate of low-cost housing, particularly for the elderly, and a former president of Phipps Houses in New York City, one of the country's largest nonprofit housing ventures, died on Aug. 14 at a hospice in East Northport, N.Y. He was 88 and lived in Cold Spring H
 Donald Posner, a leading scholar of Baroque art and 17th- and 18th-century painting in Italy and France, died on Aug. 13 at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 73 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was esophageal cancer, said his companion, Joan Leibovitz. At his death, Mr.
 Elwood Perry, a soft-spoken Southerner who translated his almost preternatural ability to catch fish into a finely tuned philosophy, a lucrative business and a personal legend as outsized as any fish story, died on Aug. 12 at his home in Taylorsville, N.C. He was 90. His family said
 Melvin Howard Osterman, a founding partner of the Albany law firm Whiteman Osterman & Hanna and an architect of important state labor legislation, died on Aug. 14 at his home in Delmar, N.Y. He was 70. The cause was a severe reaction to insect stings he received while gardening, acc
 Andrónico Luksic, a Chilean billionaire who built one of Latin America's biggest business empires, died Aug. 18 in Chile. He was 78 years old. His death was reported by Antofagasta P.L.C., the company where he had served as chairman until his retirement last year. Mr. Luksi
 Ronald F. Scott, the chief designer of the scoop that first tested the composition and strength of the moon's surface, establishing that man's first small step there could be taken safely, died on Aug. 16 at his home in Altadena, Calif. He was 76. The cause was cancer, his son Grant
 Dr. Morris Ziff, an expert in rheumatic diseases who investigated how the body sometimes turns on itself to cause such illnesses, died on Aug. 22 in Dallas. He was 91. The cause was cardiac arrest, his family said. Dr. Ziff, who trained at New York University and taught ther
 James H. Scheuer, a fiercely liberal New York congressman who for 13 terms represented districts covering parts of the Bronx, Queens, Brooklyn and Nassau County as part of a post-World War II generation of political reformers, died yesterday at his home in Washington. He was 85. The
 Jude Wanniski, a journalist, consultant and, most of all, a fierce and unconventional partisan who marshaled intellect and salesmanship to promote big tax cuts as the best cure for an ailing economy, a theory embraced and executed by President Reagan, died yesterday in Morristown, N.J. He w
